<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ezekiel 28</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file855.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file857.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ezekiel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 28</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Prophecy Against the King of Tyre</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>28:2</span> “Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“‘Your heart is proud and you said, “I am a god; </p>
<p class="poetry">I sit in the seat of gods, in the heart of the seas”—</p>
<p class="poetry">yet you are a man and not a god, </p>
<p class="poetry">though you think you are godlike. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:3</span> Look, you are wiser than Daniel; </p>
<p class="poetry">no secret is hidden from you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:4</span> By your wisdom and understanding you have gained wealth for yourself;</p>
<p class="poetry">you have amassed gold and silver in your treasuries. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:5</span> By your great skill in trade you have increased your wealth,</p>
<p class="poetry">and your heart is proud because of your wealth. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:6</span> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">Because you think you are godlike, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:7</span> I am about to bring foreigners against you, the most terrifying of nations. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will draw their swords against the grandeur made by your wisdom, </p>
<p class="poetry">and they will defile your splendor. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:8</span> They will bring you down to the Pit, and you will die violently in the heart of the seas. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:9</span> Will you still say, “I am a god,” before the one who kills you—</p>
<p class="poetry">though you are a man and not a god—</p>
<p class="poetry">when you are in the power of those who wound you? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:10</span> You will die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of foreigners;</p>
<p class="poetry">for I have spoken, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:11</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>28:12</span> “Son of man, sing a lament for the king of Tyre, and say to him, ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“‘You were the sealer of perfection, </p>
<p class="poetry">full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:13</span> You were in Eden, the garden of God. </p>
<p class="poetry">Every precious stone was your covering,</p>
<p class="poetry">the ruby, topaz, and emerald,</p>
<p class="poetry">the chrysolite, onyx, and jasper,</p>
<p class="poetry">the sapphire, turquoise, and beryl; </p>
<p class="poetry">your settings and mounts were made of gold.</p>
<p class="poetry">On the day you were created they were prepared. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:14</span> I placed you there with an anointed guardian cherub; </p>
<p class="poetry">you were on the holy mountain of God;</p>
<p class="poetry">you walked about amidst fiery stones. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:15</span> You were blameless in your behavior from the day you were created,</p>
<p class="poetry">until sin was discovered in you.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:16</span> In the abundance of your trade you were filled with violence, and you sinned; </p>
<p class="poetry">so I defiled you and banished you from the mountain of God—</p>
<p class="poetry">the guardian cherub expelled you from the midst of the stones of fire. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:17</span> Your heart was proud because of your beauty;</p>
<p class="poetry">you corrupted your wisdom on account of your splendor.</p>
<p class="poetry">I threw you down to the ground; </p>
<p class="poetry">I placed you before kings, that they might see you.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:18</span> By the multitude of your iniquities, through the sinfulness of your trade,</p>
<p class="poetry">you desecrated your sanctuaries.</p>
<p class="poetry">So I drew fire out from within you; </p>
<p class="poetry">it consumed you,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I turned you to ashes on the earth </p>
<p class="poetry">before the eyes of all who saw you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:19</span> All who know you among the peoples are shocked at you;</p>
<p class="poetry">you have become terrified and will be no more.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Prophecy Against Sidon</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:20</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>28:21</span> “Son of man, turn toward Sidon and prophesy against it. <span>28:22</span> Say, ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“‘Look, I am against you, Sidon, </p>
<p class="poetry">and I will magnify myself in your midst.</p>
<p class="poetry">Then they will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> </p>
<p class="poetry">when I execute judgments on her </p>
<p class="poetry">and reveal my sovereign power in her.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:23</span> I will send a plague into the city and bloodshed into its streets;</p>
<p class="poetry">the slain will fall within it, by the sword that attacks it from every side.</p>
<p class="poetry">Then they will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:24</span> “‘No longer will Israel suffer from the sharp briers or painful thorns of all who surround and scorn them. Then they will know that I am the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:25</span> “‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: When I regather the house of Israel from the peoples where they are dispersed, I will reveal my sovereign power over them in the sight of the nations, and they will live in their land that I gave to my servant Jacob. <span>28:26</span> They will live securely in it; they will build houses and plant vineyards. They will live securely when I execute my judgments on all those who scorn them and surround them. Then they will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> their God.’” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file855.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file857.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
