<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 5</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file706.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file708.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 5</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Love Song Gone Sour</p><p class="poetry"><span>5:1</span> I will sing to my love—</p>
<p class="poetry">a song to my lover about his vineyard. </p>
<p class="poetry">My love had a vineyard</p>
<p class="poetry">on a fertile hill. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:2</span> He built a hedge around it, removed its stones,</p>
<p class="poetry">and planted a vine.</p>
<p class="poetry">He built a tower in the middle of it,</p>
<p class="poetry">and constructed a winepress.</p>
<p class="poetry">He waited for it to produce edible grapes,</p>
<p class="poetry">but it produced sour ones instead. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:3</span> So now, residents of Jerusalem, </p>
<p class="poetry">people of Judah,</p>
<p class="poetry">you decide between me and my vineyard! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:4</span> What more can I do for my vineyard</p>
<p class="poetry">beyond what I have already done?</p>
<p class="poetry">When I waited for it to produce edible grapes,</p>
<p class="poetry">why did it produce sour ones instead?</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:5</span> Now I will inform you</p>
<p class="poetry">what I am about to do to my vineyard:</p>
<p class="poetry">I will remove its hedge and turn it into pasture, </p>
<p class="poetry">I will break its wall and allow animals to graze there. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:6</span> I will make it a wasteland;</p>
<p class="poetry">no one will prune its vines or hoe its ground, </p>
<p class="poetry">and thorns and briers will grow there.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will order the clouds</p>
<p class="poetry">not to drop any rain on it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:7</span> Indeed, Israel is the vineyard of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies,</p>
<p class="poetry">the people of Judah are the cultivated place in which he took delight.</p>
<p class="poetry">He waited for justice, but look what he got—disobedience! </p>
<p class="poetry">He waited for fairness, but look what he got—cries for help! </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Disaster is Coming</p><p class="poetry"><span>5:8</span> Beware, those who accumulate houses, </p>
<p class="poetry">who also accumulate field after field </p>
<p class="poetry">until there is no land left, </p>
<p class="poetry">and you are the only landowners remaining within the land. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:9</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies told me this: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Many houses will certainly become desolate,</p>
<p class="poetry">large, impressive houses will have no one living in them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:10</span> Indeed, a large vineyard will produce just a few gallons, </p>
<p class="poetry">and enough seed to yield several bushels will produce less than a bushel.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:11</span> Beware, those who get up early to drink beer, </p>
<p class="poetry">those who keep drinking long after dark</p>
<p class="poetry">until they are intoxicated with wine. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:12</span> They have stringed instruments, tambourines, flutes,</p>
<p class="poetry">and wine at their parties.</p>
<p class="poetry">So they do not recognize what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is doing,</p>
<p class="poetry">they do not perceive what he is bringing about. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:13</span> Therefore my people will be deported </p>
<p class="poetry">because of their lack of understanding.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their leaders will have nothing to eat, </p>
<p class="poetry">their masses will have nothing to drink. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:14</span> So Death will open up its throat,</p>
<p class="poetry">and open wide its mouth; </p>
<p class="poetry">Zion’s dignitaries and masses will descend into it,</p>
<p class="poetry">including those who revel and celebrate within her. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:15</span> Men will be humiliated,</p>
<p class="poetry">they will be brought low;</p>
<p class="poetry">the proud will be brought low. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:16</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies will be exalted when he punishes, </p>
<p class="poetry">the holy God’s authority will be recognized when he judges. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:17</span> Lambs will graze as if in their pastures,</p>
<p class="poetry">amid the ruins the rich sojourners will graze. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:18</span> Beware, those who pull evil along using cords of emptiness are as good as dead, </p>
<p class="poetry">who pull sin as with cart ropes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:19</span> They say, “Let him hurry, let him act quickly, </p>
<p class="poetry">so we can see;</p>
<p class="poetry">let the plan of the Holy One of Israel take shape and come to pass,</p>
<p class="poetry">then we will know it!”</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:20</span> Beware, those who call evil good and good evil, </p>
<p class="poetry">who turn darkness into light and light into darkness,</p>
<p class="poetry">who turn bitter into sweet and sweet into bitter. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:21</span> Beware, those who think they are wise, </p>
<p class="poetry">those who think they possess understanding. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:22</span> Beware, those who are champions at drinking, </p>
<p class="poetry">who display great courage when mixing strong drinks. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:23</span> They pronounce the guilty innocent for a payoff,</p>
<p class="poetry">they ignore the just cause of the innocent. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:24</span> Therefore, as flaming fire devours straw,</p>
<p class="poetry">and dry grass disintegrates in the flames,</p>
<p class="poetry">so their root will rot,</p>
<p class="poetry">and their flower will blow away like dust. </p>
<p class="poetry">For they have rejected the law of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies,</p>
<p class="poetry">they have spurned the commands of the Holy One of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:25</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is furious with his people;</p>
<p class="poetry">he lifts his hand and strikes them.</p>
<p class="poetry">The mountains shake,</p>
<p class="poetry">and corpses lie like manure in the middle of the streets.</p>
<p class="poetry">Despite all this, his anger does not subside,</p>
<p class="poetry">and his hand is ready to strike again. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:26</span> He lifts a signal flag for a distant nation, </p>
<p class="poetry">he whistles for it to come from the far regions of the earth.</p>
<p class="poetry">Look, they come quickly and swiftly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:27</span> None tire or stumble,</p>
<p class="poetry">they don’t stop to nap or sleep.</p>
<p class="poetry">They don’t loosen their belts,</p>
<p class="poetry">or unstrap their sandals to rest. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:28</span> Their arrows are sharpened,</p>
<p class="poetry">and all their bows are prepared. </p>
<p class="poetry">The hooves of their horses are hard as flint, </p>
<p class="poetry">and their chariot wheels are like a windstorm. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:29</span> Their roar is like a lion’s;</p>
<p class="poetry">they roar like young lions.</p>
<p class="poetry">They growl and seize their prey;</p>
<p class="poetry">they drag it away and no one can come to the rescue. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:30</span> At that time they will growl over their prey, </p>
<p class="poetry">it will sound like sea waves crashing against rocks. </p>
<p class="poetry">One will look out over the land and see the darkness of disaster,</p>
<p class="poetry">clouds will turn the light into darkness. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file706.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file708.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
