<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file770.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file772.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Recalls Israel’s Earlier Faithfulness</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message came to me, <span>2:2</span> “Go and declare in the hearing of the people of Jerusalem: ‘This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: “I have fond memories of you, how devoted you were to me in your early years. I remember how you loved me like a new bride; you followed me through the wilderness, through a land that had never been planted. <span>2:3</span> Israel was set apart to the <span class="smcaps">Lord; </span>they were like the firstfruits of a harvest to him. All who tried to devour them were punished; disaster came upon them,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’”</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Reminds Them of the Unfaithfulness of Their Ancestors</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:4</span> Now listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message, you descendants of Jacob,</p>
<p class="poetry">all you family groups from the nation of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:5</span> This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“What fault could your ancestors have possibly found in me</p>
<p class="poetry">that they strayed so far from me? </p>
<p class="poetry">They paid allegiance to worthless idols, and so became worthless to me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:6</span> They did not ask,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Where is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> who delivered us out of Egypt,</p>
<p class="poetry">who brought us through the wilderness,</p>
<p class="poetry">through a land of valleys and gorges, </p>
<p class="poetry">through a land of desert and deep darkness, </p>
<p class="poetry">through a land in which no one travels,</p>
<p class="poetry">and where no one lives?’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:7</span> I brought you into a fertile land</p>
<p class="poetry">so you could enjoy its fruits and its rich bounty.</p>
<p class="poetry">But when you entered my land, you defiled it; </p>
<p class="poetry">you made the land I call my own loathsome to me.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:8</span> Your priests did not ask, ‘Where is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>?’ </p>
<p class="poetry">Those responsible for teaching my law did not really know me. </p>
<p class="poetry">Your rulers rebelled against me.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your prophets prophesied in the name of the god Baal. </p>
<p class="poetry">They all worshiped idols that could not help them. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Charges Contemporary Israel with Spiritual Adultery</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:9</span> “So, once more I will state my case against you,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will also state it against your children and grandchildren. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:10</span> Go west across the sea to the coasts of Cyprus and see.</p>
<p class="poetry">Send someone east to Kedar and have them look carefully.</p>
<p class="poetry">See if such a thing as this has ever happened:</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:11</span> Has a nation ever changed its gods</p>
<p class="poetry">(even though they are not really gods at all)?</p>
<p class="poetry">But my people have exchanged me, their glorious God, </p>
<p class="poetry">for a god that cannot help them at all! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:12</span> Be amazed at this, O heavens. </p>
<p class="poetry">Be shocked and utterly dumbfounded,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:13</span> “Do so because my people have committed a double wrong:</p>
<p class="poetry">They have rejected me,</p>
<p class="poetry">the fountain of life-giving water, </p>
<p class="poetry">and they have dug cisterns for themselves,</p>
<p class="poetry">cracked cisterns that cannot even hold water. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Israel’s Reliance on Foreign Alliances (not on God)</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:14</span> “Israel is not a slave, is he?</p>
<p class="poetry">He was not born into slavery, was he? </p>
<p class="poetry">If not, why then is he being carried off? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:15</span> Like lions his enemies roar victoriously over him;</p>
<p class="poetry">they raise their voices in triumph. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have laid his land waste;</p>
<p class="poetry">his cities have been burned down and deserted. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:16</span> Even the soldiers from Memphis and Tahpanhes</p>
<p class="poetry">have cracked your skulls, people of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:17</span> You have brought all this on yourself, Israel, </p>
<p class="poetry">by deserting the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God when he was leading you along the right path. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:18</span> What good will it do you then to go down to Egypt</p>
<p class="poetry">to seek help from the Egyptians? </p>
<p class="poetry">What good will it do you to go over to Assyria</p>
<p class="poetry">to seek help from the Assyrians? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:19</span> Your own wickedness will bring about your punishment.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your unfaithful acts will bring down discipline on you. </p>
<p class="poetry">Know, then, and realize how utterly harmful </p>
<p class="poetry">it was for you to reject me, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God, </p>
<p class="poetry">to show no respect for me,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Expresses His Exasperation at Judah’s Persistent Idolatry</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:20</span> “Indeed, long ago you threw off my authority</p>
<p class="poetry">and refused to be subject to me. </p>
<p class="poetry">You said, ‘I will not serve you.’ </p>
<p class="poetry">Instead, you gave yourself to other gods on every high hill</p>
<p class="poetry">and under every green tree,</p>
<p class="poetry">like a prostitute sprawls out before her lovers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:21</span> I planted you in the land </p>
<p class="poetry">like a special vine of the very best stock.</p>
<p class="poetry">Why in the world have you turned into something like a wild vine</p>
<p class="poetry">that produces rotten, foul-smelling grapes? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:22</span> You can try to wash away your guilt with a strong detergent.</p>
<p class="poetry">You can use as much soap as you want.</p>
<p class="poetry">But the stain of your guilt is still there for me to see,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:23</span> “How can you say, ‘I have not made myself unclean.</p>
<p class="poetry">I have not paid allegiance to the gods called Baal.’</p>
<p class="poetry">Just look at the way you have behaved in the Valley of Hinnom! </p>
<p class="poetry">Think about the things you have done there!</p>
<p class="poetry">You are like a flighty, young female camel</p>
<p class="poetry">that rushes here and there, crisscrossing its path. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:24</span> You are like a wild female donkey brought up in the wilderness.</p>
<p class="poetry">In her lust she sniffs the wind to get the scent of a male. </p>
<p class="poetry">No one can hold her back when she is in heat.</p>
<p class="poetry">None of the males need wear themselves out chasing after her.</p>
<p class="poetry">At mating time she is easy to find. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:25</span> Do not chase after other gods until your shoes wear out</p>
<p class="poetry">and your throats become dry. </p>
<p class="poetry">But you say, ‘It is useless for you to try and stop me</p>
<p class="poetry">because I love those foreign gods and want to pursue them!’</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:26</span> Just as a thief has to suffer dishonor when he is caught,</p>
<p class="poetry">so the people of Israel will suffer dishonor for what they have done. </p>
<p class="poetry">So will their kings and officials,</p>
<p class="poetry">their priests and their prophets. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:27</span> They say to a wooden idol, ‘You are my father.’</p>
<p class="poetry">They say to a stone image, ‘You gave birth to me.’ </p>
<p class="poetry">Yes, they have turned away from me instead of turning to me. </p>
<p class="poetry">Yet when they are in trouble, they say, ‘Come and save us!’</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:28</span> But where are the gods you made for yourselves?</p>
<p class="poetry">Let them save you when you are in trouble.</p>
<p class="poetry">The sad fact is that you have as many gods</p>
<p class="poetry">as you have towns, Judah. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:29</span> Why do you try to refute me? </p>
<p class="poetry">All of you have rebelled against me,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:30</span> “It did no good for me to punish your people.</p>
<p class="poetry">They did not respond to such correction.</p>
<p class="poetry">You slaughtered your prophets</p>
<p class="poetry">like a voracious lion. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:31</span> You people of this generation, </p>
<p class="poetry">listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Have I been like a wilderness to you, Israel?</p>
<p class="poetry">Have I been like a dark and dangerous land to you? </p>
<p class="poetry">Why then do you say, ‘We are free to wander. </p>
<p class="poetry">We will not come to you anymore?’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:32</span> Does a young woman forget to put on her jewels?</p>
<p class="poetry">Does a bride forget to put on her bridal attire?</p>
<p class="poetry">But my people have forgotten me </p>
<p class="poetry">for more days than can even be counted. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:33</span> “My, how good you have become</p>
<p class="poetry">at chasing after your lovers! </p>
<p class="poetry">Why, you could even teach prostitutes a thing or two! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:34</span> Even your clothes are stained with</p>
<p class="poetry">the lifeblood of the poor who had not done anything wrong; </p>
<p class="poetry">you did not catch them breaking into your homes. </p>
<p class="poetry">Yet, in spite of all these things you have done, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:35</span> you say, ‘I have not done anything wrong,</p>
<p class="poetry">so the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> cannot really be angry with me any more.’</p>
<p class="poetry">But, watch out! I will bring down judgment on you</p>
<p class="poetry">because you say, ‘I have not committed any sin.’</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:36</span> Why do you constantly go about </p>
<p class="poetry">changing your political allegiances? </p>
<p class="poetry">You will get no help from Egypt</p>
<p class="poetry">just as you got no help from Assyria. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:37</span> Moreover, you will come away from Egypt</p>
<p class="poetry">with your hands covering your faces in sorrow and shame </p>
<p class="poetry">because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will not allow your reliance on them to be successful</p>
<p class="poetry">and you will not gain any help from them. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file770.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file772.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
