<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Leviticus 23</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file115.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file117.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Leviticus<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 23</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Regulations for Israel’s Appointed Times</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses: <span>23:2</span> “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘These are the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s appointed times which you must proclaim as holy assemblies—my appointed times. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Weekly Sabbath</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:3</span> “‘Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there must be a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy assembly. You must not do any work; it is a Sabbath to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> in all the places where you live.</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Passover and Feast of Unleavened Bread </p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:4</span> “‘These are the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s appointed times, holy assemblies, which you must proclaim at their appointed time. <span>23:5</span> In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at twilight, is a Passover offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>23:6</span> Then on the fifteenth day of the same month will be the Feast of Unleavened Bread to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>; seven days you must eat unleavened bread. <span>23:7</span> On the first day there will be a holy assembly for you; you must not do any regular work. <span>23:8</span> You must present a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> for seven days, and the seventh day is a holy assembly; you must not do any regular work.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Presentation of Firstfruits </p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:9</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses: <span>23:10</span> “Speak to the  Israelites and tell them, ‘When you enter the land that I am about to give to you and you gather in its harvest, then you must bring the sheaf of the first portion of your harvest to the priest, <span>23:11</span> and he must wave the sheaf before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> to be accepted for your benefit —on the day after the Sabbath the priest is to wave it. <span>23:12</span> On the day you wave the sheaf you must also offer a flawless yearling lamb for a burnt offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, <span>23:13</span> along with its grain offering, two-tenths of an ephah of choice wheat flour mixed with olive oil, as a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, a soothing aroma, and its drink offering, one-fourth of a hin of wine. <span>23:14</span> You must not eat bread, roasted grain, or fresh grain until this very day, until you bring the offering to your God. This is a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all the places where you live.</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Feast of Weeks </p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:15</span> “‘You must count for yourselves seven weeks from the day after the Sabbath, from the day you bring the wave offering  sheaf; they must be complete weeks. <span>23:16</span> You must count fifty days—until the day after the seventh Sabbath—and then you must present a new grain offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>23:17</span> From the places where you live you must bring two loaves of bread for a wave offering; they must be made from two-tenths of an ephah of fine wheat flour, baked with yeast, as firstfruits to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>23:18</span> Along with the loaves of bread, you must also present seven flawless yearling lambs, one young bull, and two rams. They are to be a burnt offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> along with their grain offering and drink offerings, a gift of a soothing aroma to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>23:19</span> You must also offer one male goat for a sin offering and two yearling lambs for a peace-offering sacrifice, <span>23:20</span> and the priest is to wave them—the two lambs —along with the bread of the firstfruits, as a wave offering before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>; they will be holy to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> for the priest. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:21</span> “‘On this very day you must proclaim an assembly; it is to be a holy assembly for you. You must not do any regular work. This is a perpetual statute in all the places where you live throughout your generations. <span>23:22</span> When you gather in the harvest of your land, you must not completely harvest the corner of your field, and you must not gather up the gleanings of your harvest. You must leave them for the poor and the resident foreigner. I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Feast of Horn Blasts</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:23</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses: <span>23:24</span> “Tell the Israelites, ‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you must have a complete rest, a memorial announced by loud horn blasts, a holy assembly. <span>23:25</span> You must not do any regular work, but you must present a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’”</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Day of Atonement </p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:26</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses: <span>23:27</span> “The tenth day of this seventh month is the Day of Atonement. It is to be a holy assembly for you, and you must humble yourselves and present a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>23:28</span> You must not do any work on this particular day, because it is a day of atonement to make atonement for yourselves before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God. <span>23:29</span> Indeed, any person who does not behave with humility on this particular day will be cut off from his people. <span>23:30</span> As for any person who does any work on this particular day, I will exterminate that person from the midst of his people — <span>23:31</span> you must not do any work! This is a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all the places where you live. <span>23:32</span> It is a Sabbath of complete rest for you, and you must humble yourselves on the ninth day of the month in the evening, from evening until evening you must observe your Sabbath.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Feast of Temporary Shelters</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:33</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses: <span>23:34</span> “Tell the Israelites, ‘On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the Feast of Shelters for seven days to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>23:35</span> On the first day is a holy assembly; you must do no regular work. <span>23:36</span> For seven days you must present a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. On the eighth day there is to be a holy assembly for you, and you must present a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. It is a solemn assembly day; you must not do any regular work. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:37</span> “‘These are the appointed times of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> that you must proclaim as holy assemblies to present a gift to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>—burnt offering, grain offering, sacrifice, and drink offerings, each day according to its regulation, <span>23:38</span> besides the Sabbaths of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and all your gifts, votive offerings, and freewill offerings which you must give to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:39</span> “‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you gather in the produce of the land, you must celebrate a pilgrim festival of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> for seven days. On the first day is a complete rest and on the eighth day is complete rest. <span>23:40</span> On the first day you must take for yourselves branches from majestic trees —palm branches, branches of leafy trees, and willows of the brook—and you must rejoice before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God for seven days. <span>23:41</span> You must celebrate it as a pilgrim festival to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> for seven days in the year. This is a perpetual statute throughout your generations; you must celebrate it in the seventh month. <span>23:42</span> You must live in temporary shelters for seven days; every native citizen in Israel must live in shelters, <span>23:43</span> so that your future generations may know that I made the Israelites live in shelters when I brought them out from the land of Egypt. I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:44</span> So Moses spoke to the Israelites about the appointed times of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file115.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file117.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
