<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Obadiah 1</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file919.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file921.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Obadiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 1</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">God’s Judgment on Edom</p><p class="poetry"><span>1:1</span> The vision that Obadiah saw. </p>
<p class="poetry">The Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says this concerning Edom: </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Edom’s Approaching Destruction</p><p class="poetry">We have heard a report from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">An envoy was sent among the nations, saying, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Arise! Let us make war against Edom!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:2</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, “Look! I will make you a weak nation; </p>
<p class="poetry">you will be greatly despised! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:3</span> Your presumptuous heart has deceived you—</p>
<p class="poetry">you who reside in the safety of the rocky cliffs, </p>
<p class="poetry">whose home is high in the mountains. </p>
<p class="poetry">You think to yourself, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘No one can bring me down to the ground!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:4</span> Even if you were to soar high like an eagle, </p>
<p class="poetry">even if you were to make your nest among the stars,</p>
<p class="poetry">I can bring you down even from there!” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>1:5</span> “If thieves came to rob you during the night, </p>
<p class="poetry">they would steal only as much as they wanted. </p>
<p class="poetry">If grape pickers came to harvest your vineyards, </p>
<p class="poetry">they would leave some behind for the poor. </p>
<p class="poetry">But you will be totally destroyed! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:6</span> How the people of Esau will be thoroughly plundered! </p>
<p class="poetry">Their hidden valuables will be ransacked! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:7</span> All your allies will force you from your homeland! </p>
<p class="poetry">Your treaty partners will deceive you and overpower you.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your trusted friends will set an ambush for you</p>
<p class="poetry">that will take you by surprise! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>1:8</span> At that time,” the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says,</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will destroy the wise sages of Edom, </p>
<p class="poetry">the advisers from Esau’s mountain. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:9</span> Your warriors will be shattered, O Teman, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that everyone will be destroyed from Esau’s mountain! </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Edom’s Treachery Against Judah</p><p class="poetry"><span>1:10</span> “Because you violently slaughtered your relatives, the people of Jacob, </p>
<p class="poetry">shame will cover you, and you will be destroyed forever. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:11</span> You stood aloof while strangers took his army captive,</p>
<p class="poetry">and foreigners advanced to his gates. </p>
<p class="poetry">When they cast lots over Jerusalem, </p>
<p class="poetry">you behaved as though you were in league with them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:12</span> You should not have gloated when your relatives suffered calamity. </p>
<p class="poetry">You should not have rejoiced over the people of Judah when they were destroyed. </p>
<p class="poetry">You should not have boasted when they suffered adversity. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:13</span> You should not have entered the city of my people when they experienced distress. </p>
<p class="poetry">You should not have joined in gloating over their misfortune when they suffered distress. </p>
<p class="poetry">You should not have looted their wealth when they endured distress. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:14</span> You should not have stood at the fork in the road to slaughter those trying to escape. </p>
<p class="poetry">You should not have captured their refugees when they suffered adversity. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Coming Day of the Lord</p><p class="poetry"><span>1:15</span> “For the day of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is approaching for all the nations! </p>
<p class="poetry">Just as you have done, so it will be done to you.</p>
<p class="poetry">You will get exactly what your deeds deserve. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:16</span> For just as you have drunk on my holy mountain,</p>
<p class="poetry">so all the nations will drink continually. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will drink, and they will gulp down;</p>
<p class="poetry">they will be as though they had never been. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:17</span> But on Mount Zion there will be a remnant of those who escape, </p>
<p class="poetry">and it will be a holy place once again.</p>
<p class="poetry">The descendants of Jacob will conquer </p>
<p class="poetry">those who had conquered them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:18</span> The descendants of Jacob will be a fire,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the descendants of Joseph a flame.</p>
<p class="poetry">The descendants of Esau will be like stubble.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will burn them up and devour them.</p>
<p class="poetry">There will not be a single survivor of the descendants of Esau!”</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has spoken it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:19</span> The people of the Negev will take possession of Esau’s mountain,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the people of the foothills will take </p>
<p class="poetry">possession of the land of the Philistines.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will also take possession of the territory of Ephraim and the territory of Samaria,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the people of Benjamin will take possession of Gilead. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:20</span> The exiles of this fortress of the people of Israel </p>
<p class="poetry">will take possession of what belongs to </p>
<p class="poetry">the people of Canaan, as far as Zarephath, </p>
<p class="poetry">and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad </p>
<p class="poetry">will take possession of the towns of the Negev. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>1:21</span> Those who have been delivered will go up on Mount Zion</p>
<p class="poetry">in order to rule over Esau’s mountain.</p>
<p class="poetry">Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will reign as King! </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file919.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file921.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
