<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 14</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file715.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file717.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 14</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>14:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will certainly have compassion on Jacob; he will again choose Israel as his special people and restore them to their land. Resident foreigners will join them and unite with the family of Jacob. <span>14:2</span> Nations will take them and bring them back to their own place. Then the family of Israel will make foreigners their servants as they settle in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s land. They will make their captors captives and rule over the ones who oppressed them. <span>14:3</span> When the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> gives you relief from your suffering and anxiety and from the hard labor that you were made to perform, <span>14:4</span> you will taunt the king of Babylon with these words: </p>
<p class="bodytext">“Look how the oppressor has met his end!</p>
<p class="poetry">Hostility has ceased! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:5</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has broken the club of the wicked,</p>
<p class="poetry">the scepter of rulers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:6</span> It furiously struck down nations</p>
<p class="poetry">with unceasing blows. </p>
<p class="poetry">It angrily ruled over nations,</p>
<p class="poetry">oppressing them without restraint. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:7</span> The whole earth rests and is quiet;</p>
<p class="poetry">they break into song. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:8</span> The evergreens also rejoice over your demise, </p>
<p class="poetry">as do the cedars of Lebanon, singing, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Since you fell asleep, </p>
<p class="poetry">no woodsman comes up to chop us down!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:9</span> Sheol below is stirred up about you,</p>
<p class="poetry">ready to meet you when you arrive.</p>
<p class="poetry">It rouses the spirits of the dead for you,</p>
<p class="poetry">all the former leaders of the earth; </p>
<p class="poetry">it makes all the former kings of the nations</p>
<p class="poetry">rise from their thrones. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:10</span> All of them respond to you, saying:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘You too have become weak like us!</p>
<p class="poetry">You have become just like us! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:11</span> Your splendor has been brought down to Sheol,</p>
<p class="poetry">as well as the sound of your stringed instruments. </p>
<p class="poetry">You lie on a bed of maggots,</p>
<p class="poetry">with a blanket of worms over you. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>14:12</span> Look how you have fallen from the sky,</p>
<p class="poetry">O shining one, son of the dawn! </p>
<p class="poetry">You have been cut down to the ground,</p>
<p class="poetry">O conqueror of the nations! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:13</span> You said to yourself, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘I will climb up to the sky.</p>
<p class="poetry">Above the stars of El </p>
<p class="poetry">I will set up my throne.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will rule on the mountain of assembly</p>
<p class="poetry">on the remote slopes of Zaphon. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:14</span> I will climb up to the tops of the clouds;</p>
<p class="poetry">I will make myself like the Most High!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:15</span> But you were brought down to Sheol,</p>
<p class="poetry">to the remote slopes of the Pit. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:16</span> Those who see you stare at you,</p>
<p class="poetry">they look at you carefully, thinking: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Is this the man who shook the earth,</p>
<p class="poetry">the one who made kingdoms tremble? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:17</span> Is this the one who made the world like a wilderness,</p>
<p class="poetry">who ruined its cities,</p>
<p class="poetry">and refused to free his prisoners so they could return home?’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:18</span>  As for all the kings of the nations,</p>
<p class="poetry">all of them lie down in splendor, </p>
<p class="poetry">each in his own tomb. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:19</span> But you have been thrown out of your grave</p>
<p class="poetry">like a shoot that is thrown away. </p>
<p class="poetry">You lie among the slain,</p>
<p class="poetry">among those who have been slashed by the sword,</p>
<p class="poetry">among those headed for the stones of the Pit, </p>
<p class="poetry">as if you were a mangled corpse. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:20</span> You will not be buried with them, </p>
<p class="poetry">because you destroyed your land</p>
<p class="poetry">and killed your people.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The offspring of the wicked</p>
<p class="poetry">will never be mentioned again.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:21</span> Prepare to execute his sons</p>
<p class="poetry">for the sins their ancestors have committed. </p>
<p class="poetry">They must not rise up and take possession of the earth,</p>
<p class="poetry">or fill the surface of the world with cities. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>14:22</span> “I will rise up against them,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies.</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will blot out all remembrance of Babylon and destroy all her people, </p>
<p class="poetry">including the offspring she produces,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:23</span> “I will turn her into a place that is overrun with wild animals </p>
<p class="poetry">and covered with pools of stagnant water.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will get rid of her, just as one sweeps away dirt with a broom,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>14:24</span>  The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies makes this solemn vow:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Be sure of this:</p>
<p class="poetry">Just as I have intended, so it will be;</p>
<p class="poetry">just as I have planned, it will happen. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:25</span> I will break Assyria in my land,</p>
<p class="poetry">I will trample them underfoot on my hills.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their yoke will be removed from my people,</p>
<p class="poetry">the burden will be lifted from their shoulders. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:26</span> This is the plan I have devised for the whole earth;</p>
<p class="poetry">my hand is ready to strike all the nations.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:27</span> Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has a plan,</p>
<p class="poetry">and who can possibly frustrate it?</p>
<p class="poetry">His hand is ready to strike,</p>
<p class="poetry">and who can possibly stop it? </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Will Judge the Philistines</p><p class="bodytext"><span>14:28</span> This oracle came in the year that King Ahaz died: </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:29</span> Don’t be so happy, all you Philistines,</p>
<p class="poetry">just because the club that beat you has been broken! </p>
<p class="poetry">For a viper will grow out of the serpent’s root,</p>
<p class="poetry">and its fruit will be a darting adder. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:30</span> The poor will graze in my pastures; </p>
<p class="poetry">the needy will rest securely.</p>
<p class="poetry">But I will kill your root by famine;</p>
<p class="poetry">it will put to death all your survivors. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:31</span> Wail, O city gate!</p>
<p class="poetry">Cry out, O city!</p>
<p class="poetry">Melt with fear, all you Philistines!</p>
<p class="poetry">For out of the north comes a cloud of smoke,</p>
<p class="poetry">and there are no stragglers in its ranks. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>14:32</span> How will they respond to the messengers of this nation? </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has made Zion secure;</p>
<p class="poetry">the oppressed among his people will find safety in her.</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file715.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file717.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
