<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Genesis 11</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file11.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file13.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Genesis<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 11</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Dispersion of the Nations at Babel</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:1</span> The whole earth had a common language and a common vocabulary. <span>11:2</span> When the people moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar and settled there. <span>11:3</span> Then they said to one another, “Come, let’s make bricks and bake them thoroughly.” (They had brick instead of stone and tar instead of mortar.) <span>11:4</span> Then they said, “Come, let’s build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens so that we may make a name for ourselves. Otherwise we will be scattered across the face of the entire earth.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:5</span> But the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> came down to see the city and the tower that the people had started building. <span>11:6</span> And the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, “If as one people all sharing a common language they have begun to do this, then nothing they plan to do will be beyond them. <span>11:7</span> Come, let’s go down and confuse their language so they won’t be able to understand each other.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:8</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> scattered them from there across the face of the entire earth, and they stopped building the city. <span>11:9</span> That is why its name was called Babel —because there the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> confused the language of the entire world, and from there the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> scattered them across the face of the entire earth. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Genealogy of Shem</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:10</span> This is the account of Shem.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Shem was 100 years old when he became the father of Arphaxad, two years after the flood. <span>11:11</span> And after becoming the father of Arphaxad, Shem lived 500 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:12</span> When Arphaxad had lived 35 years, he became the father of Shelah. <span>11:13</span> And after he became the father of Shelah, Arphaxad lived 403 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:14</span> When Shelah had lived 30 years, he became the father of Eber. <span>11:15</span> And after he became the father of Eber, Shelah lived 403 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:16</span> When Eber had lived 34 years, he became the father of Peleg. <span>11:17</span> And after he became the father of Peleg, Eber lived 430 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:18</span> When Peleg had lived 30 years, he became the father of Reu. <span>11:19</span> And after he became the father of Reu, Peleg lived 209 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:20</span> When Reu had lived 32 years, he became the father of Serug. <span>11:21</span> And after he became the father of Serug, Reu lived 207 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:22</span> When Serug had lived 30 years, he became the father of Nahor. <span>11:23</span> And after he became the father of Nahor, Serug lived 200 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:24</span> When Nahor had lived 29 years, he became the father of Terah. <span>11:25</span> And after he became the father of Terah, Nahor lived 119 years and had other sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:26</span> When Terah had lived 70 years, he became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Record of Terah</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:27</span> This is the account of Terah.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran became the father of Lot. <span>11:28</span> Haran died in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans, while his father Terah was still alive. <span>11:29</span> And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves. The name of Abram’s wife was Sarai. And the name of Nahor’s wife was Milcah; she was the daughter of Haran, who was the father of both Milcah and Iscah. <span>11:30</span> But Sarai was barren; she had no children. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:31</span> Terah took his son Abram, his grandson Lot (the son of Haran), and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram’s wife, and with them he set out from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to Canaan. When they came to Haran, they settled there. <span>11:32</span> The lifetime of Terah was 205 years, and he died in Haran. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file11.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file13.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
