<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ecclesiastes 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file681.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file683.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ecclesiastes<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Futility of Self-Indulgent Pleasure</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:1</span> I thought to myself, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Come now, I will try self-indulgent pleasure to see if it is worthwhile.” </p>
<p class="poetry">But I found that it also is futile. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:2</span> I said of partying, “It is folly,”</p>
<p class="poetry">and of self-indulgent pleasure, “It accomplishes nothing!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:3</span> I thought deeply about the effects of indulging myself with wine</p>
<p class="poetry">(all the while my mind was guiding me with wisdom) </p>
<p class="poetry">and the effects of behaving foolishly, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that I might discover what is profitable </p>
<p class="poetry">for people to do on earth during the few days of their lives. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Futility of Materialism</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:4</span> I increased my possessions: </p>
<p class="poetry">I built houses for myself; </p>
<p class="poetry">I planted vineyards for myself.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:5</span> I designed royal gardens and parks for myself,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I planted all kinds of fruit trees in them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:6</span> I constructed pools of water for myself,</p>
<p class="poetry">to irrigate my grove of flourishing trees. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:7</span> I purchased male and female slaves,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I owned slaves who were born in my house; </p>
<p class="poetry">I also possessed more livestock—both herds and flocks—</p>
<p class="poetry">than any of my predecessors in Jerusalem. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:8</span> I also amassed silver and gold for myself,</p>
<p class="poetry">as well as valuable treasures taken from kingdoms and provinces. </p>
<p class="poetry">I acquired male singers and female singers for myself,</p>
<p class="poetry">and what gives a man sensual delight —a harem of beautiful concubines. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:9</span> So I was far wealthier than all my predecessors in Jerusalem,</p>
<p class="poetry">yet I maintained my objectivity. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:10</span> I did not restrain myself from getting whatever I wanted; </p>
<p class="poetry">I did not deny myself anything that would bring me pleasure. </p>
<p class="poetry">So all my accomplishments gave me joy; </p>
<p class="poetry">this was my reward for all my effort. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:11</span> Yet when I reflected on everything I had accomplished </p>
<p class="poetry">and on all the effort that I had expended to accomplish it, </p>
<p class="poetry">I concluded: “All these achievements and possessions are ultimately profitless —</p>
<p class="poetry">like chasing the wind!</p>
<p class="poetry">There is nothing gained from them on earth.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Wisdom is Better than Folly</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:12</span> Next, I decided to consider wisdom, as well as foolish behavior and ideas. </p>
<p class="poetry">For what more can the king’s successor do than what the king has already done? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:13</span> I realized that wisdom is preferable to folly, </p>
<p class="poetry">just as light is preferable to darkness: </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:14</span> The wise man can see where he is going, but the fool walks in darkness.</p>
<p class="poetry">Yet I also realized that the same fate happens to them both. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:15</span> So I thought to myself, “The fate of the fool will happen even to me! </p>
<p class="poetry">Then what did I gain by becoming so excessively wise?” </p>
<p class="poetry">So I lamented to myself, </p>
<p class="poetry">“The benefits of wisdom are ultimately meaningless!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:16</span> For the wise man, like the fool, will not be remembered for very long, </p>
<p class="poetry">because in the days to come, both will already have been forgotten. </p>
<p class="poetry">Alas, the wise man dies—just like the fool! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:17</span> So I loathed life because what </p>
<p class="poetry">happens on earth seems awful to me;</p>
<p class="poetry">for all the benefits of wisdom are futile—like chasing the wind. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Futility of Being a Workaholic</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:18</span> So I loathed all the fruit of my effort, </p>
<p class="poetry">for which I worked so hard on earth, </p>
<p class="poetry">because I must leave it behind in the hands of my successor. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:19</span> Who knows if he will be a wise man or a fool?</p>
<p class="poetry">Yet he will be master over all the fruit of my labor </p>
<p class="poetry">for which I worked so wisely on earth. </p>
<p class="poetry">This also is futile! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:20</span> So I began to despair about all the fruit of my labor </p>
<p class="poetry">for which I worked so hard on earth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:21</span> For a man may do his work with wisdom, knowledge, and skill;</p>
<p class="poetry">however, he must hand over the fruit of his labor as an inheritance </p>
<p class="poetry">to someone else who did not work for it.</p>
<p class="poetry">This also is futile, and an awful injustice! </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Painful Days and Restless Nights</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:22</span> What does a man acquire from all his labor</p>
<p class="poetry">and from the anxiety that accompanies his toil on earth? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:23</span> For all day long his work produces pain and frustration, </p>
<p class="poetry">and even at night his mind cannot relax. </p>
<p class="poetry">This also is futile! </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Enjoy Work and its Benefits</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:24</span> There is nothing better for people than to eat and drink,</p>
<p class="poetry">and to find enjoyment in their work.</p>
<p class="poetry">I also perceived that this ability to find enjoyment comes from God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:25</span> For no one can eat and drink </p>
<p class="poetry">or experience joy apart from him. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:26</span> For to the one who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy,</p>
<p class="poetry">but to the sinner, he gives the task of amassing wealth —</p>
<p class="poetry">only to give it to the one who pleases God.</p>
<p class="poetry">This task of the wicked is futile—like chasing the wind! </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file681.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file683.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
