<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 30</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file731.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file733.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 30</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Egypt Will Prove Unreliable</p><p class="poetry"><span>30:1</span> “The rebellious children are as good as dead,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">“those who make plans without consulting me, </p>
<p class="poetry">who form alliances without consulting my Spirit, </p>
<p class="poetry">and thereby compound their sin. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:2</span> They travel down to Egypt</p>
<p class="poetry">without seeking my will, </p>
<p class="poetry">seeking Pharaoh’s protection,</p>
<p class="poetry">and looking for safety in Egypt’s protective shade. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:3</span> But Pharaoh’s protection will bring you nothing but shame,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the safety of Egypt’s protective shade nothing but humiliation. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:4</span> Though his officials are in Zoan</p>
<p class="poetry">and his messengers arrive at Hanes, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:5</span> all will be put to shame </p>
<p class="poetry">because of a nation that cannot help them,</p>
<p class="poetry">who cannot give them aid or help,</p>
<p class="poetry">but only shame and disgrace.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:6</span> This is an oracle about the animals in the Negev:</p>
<p class="poetry">Through a land of distress and danger,</p>
<p class="poetry">inhabited by lionesses and roaring lions, </p>
<p class="poetry">by snakes and darting adders, </p>
<p class="poetry">they transport their wealth on the backs of donkeys,</p>
<p class="poetry">their riches on the humps of camels,</p>
<p class="poetry">to a nation that cannot help them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:7</span> Egypt is totally incapable of helping. </p>
<p class="poetry">For this reason I call her</p>
<p class="poetry">“Proud one who is silenced.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:8</span> Now go, write it down on a tablet in their presence, </p>
<p class="poetry">inscribe it on a scroll,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that it might be preserved for a future time</p>
<p class="poetry">as an enduring witness. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:9</span> For these are rebellious people—</p>
<p class="poetry">they are lying children,</p>
<p class="poetry">children unwilling to obey the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:10</span> They say to the visionaries, “See no more visions!”</p>
<p class="poetry">and to the seers, “Don’t relate messages to us about what is right! </p>
<p class="poetry">Tell us nice things;</p>
<p class="poetry">relate deceptive messages. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:11</span> Turn aside from the way;</p>
<p class="poetry">stray off the path. </p>
<p class="poetry">Remove from our presence the Holy One of Israel.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>30:12</span> For this reason this is what the Holy One of Israel says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“You have rejected this message; </p>
<p class="poetry">you trust instead in your ability to oppress and trick, </p>
<p class="poetry">and rely on that kind of behavior. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:13</span> So this sin will become your downfall.</p>
<p class="poetry">You will be like a high wall </p>
<p class="poetry">that bulges and cracks and is ready to collapse;</p>
<p class="poetry">it crumbles suddenly, in a flash. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:14</span> It shatters in pieces like a clay jar,</p>
<p class="poetry">so shattered to bits that none of it can be salvaged. </p>
<p class="poetry">Among its fragments one cannot find a shard large enough </p>
<p class="poetry">to scoop a hot coal from a fire </p>
<p class="poetry">or to skim off water from a cistern.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>30:15</span> For this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, the Holy One of Israel says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“If you repented and patiently waited for me, you would be delivered; </p>
<p class="poetry">if you calmly trusted in me, you would find strength, </p>
<p class="poetry">but you are unwilling. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:16</span> You say, ‘No, we will flee on horses,’</p>
<p class="poetry">so you will indeed flee.</p>
<p class="poetry">You say, ‘We will ride on fast horses,’</p>
<p class="poetry">so your pursuers will be fast. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:17</span> One thousand will scurry at the battle cry of one enemy soldier; </p>
<p class="poetry">at the battle cry of five enemy soldiers you will all run away, </p>
<p class="poetry">until the remaining few are as isolated </p>
<p class="poetry">as a flagpole on a mountaintop</p>
<p class="poetry">or a signal flag on a hill.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Will Not Abandon His People</p><p class="poetry"><span>30:18</span> For this reason the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is ready to show you mercy;</p>
<p class="poetry">he sits on his throne, ready to have compassion on you. </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is a just God;</p>
<p class="poetry">all who wait for him in faith will be blessed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:19</span> For people will live in Zion;</p>
<p class="poetry">in Jerusalem you will weep no more. </p>
<p class="poetry">When he hears your cry of despair, he will indeed show you mercy;</p>
<p class="poetry">when he hears it, he will respond to you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:20</span> The Lord will give you distress to eat</p>
<p class="poetry">and suffering to drink; </p>
<p class="poetry">but your teachers will no longer be hidden;</p>
<p class="poetry">your eyes will see them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:21</span> You will hear a word spoken behind you, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry">“This is the correct way, walk in it,”</p>
<p class="poetry">whether you are heading to the right or the left. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:22</span> You will desecrate your silver-plated idols </p>
<p class="poetry">and your gold-plated images. </p>
<p class="poetry">You will throw them away as if they were a menstrual rag,</p>
<p class="poetry">saying to them, “Get out!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:23</span> He will water the seed you plant in the ground,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the ground will produce crops in abundance. </p>
<p class="poetry">At that time your cattle will graze in wide pastures. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:24</span> The oxen and donkeys used in plowing </p>
<p class="poetry">will eat seasoned feed winnowed with a shovel and pitchfork. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:25</span> On every high mountain</p>
<p class="poetry">and every high hill</p>
<p class="poetry">there will be streams flowing with water,</p>
<p class="poetry">at the time of great slaughter when the fortified towers collapse. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:26</span> The light of the full moon will be like the sun’s glare,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the sun’s glare will be seven times brighter,</p>
<p class="poetry">like the light of seven days, </p>
<p class="poetry">when the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> binds up his people’s fractured bones </p>
<p class="poetry">and heals their severe wound. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:27</span> Look, the name of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> comes from a distant place</p>
<p class="poetry">in raging anger and awesome splendor. </p>
<p class="poetry">He speaks angrily,</p>
<p class="poetry">and his word is like destructive fire. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:28</span> His battle cry overwhelms like a flooding river </p>
<p class="poetry">that reaches one’s neck.</p>
<p class="poetry">He shakes the nations in a sieve that isolates the chaff; </p>
<p class="poetry">he puts a bit into the mouth of the nations and leads them to destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:29</span> You will sing</p>
<p class="poetry">as you do in the evening when you are celebrating a festival.</p>
<p class="poetry">You will be happy like one who plays a flute</p>
<p class="poetry">as he goes to the mountain of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, the Rock who shelters Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:30</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will give a mighty shout </p>
<p class="poetry">and intervene in power, </p>
<p class="poetry">with furious anger and flaming, destructive fire, </p>
<p class="poetry">with a driving rainstorm and hailstones. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:31</span> Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s shout will shatter Assyria; </p>
<p class="poetry">he will beat them with a club. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:32</span> Every blow from his punishing cudgel </p>
<p class="poetry">with which the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will beat them </p>
<p class="poetry">will be accompanied by music from the tambourine and harp,</p>
<p class="poetry">and he will attack them with his weapons. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>30:33</span> For the burial place is already prepared; </p>
<p class="poetry">it has been made deep and wide for the king. </p>
<p class="poetry">The firewood is piled high on it. </p>
<p class="poetry">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s breath, like a stream flowing with brimstone,</p>
<p class="poetry">will ignite it.</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file731.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file733.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
