<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 48</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file816.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file818.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 48</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Judgment Against Moab </p><p class="bodytext"><span>48:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, spoke about Moab: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Sure to be judged is Nebo! Indeed, it will be destroyed.</p>
<p class="poetry">Kiriathaim will suffer disgrace. It will be captured!</p>
<p class="poetry">Its fortress will suffer disgrace. It will be torn down! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:2</span> People will not praise Moab anymore.</p>
<p class="poetry">The enemy will capture Heshbon and plot how to destroy Moab, </p>
<p class="poetry">saying, ‘Come, let’s put an end to that nation!’</p>
<p class="poetry">City of Madmen, you will also be destroyed. </p>
<p class="poetry">A destructive army will march against you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:3</span> Cries of anguish will arise in Horonaim,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Oh, the ruin and great destruction!’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>48:4</span> “Moab will be crushed.</p>
<p class="poetry">Her children will cry out in distress. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:5</span> Indeed they will climb the slopes of Luhith,</p>
<p class="poetry">weeping continually as they go. </p>
<p class="poetry">For on the road down to Horonaim </p>
<p class="poetry">they will hear the cries of distress over the destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:6</span> They will hear, ‘Run! Save yourselves;</p>
<p class="poetry">even if you must be like a lonely shrub in the wilderness!’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>48:7</span> “Moab, you trust in the things you do and in your riches.</p>
<p class="poetry">So you too will be conquered.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your god Chemosh will go into exile </p>
<p class="poetry">along with his priests and his officials. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:8</span> The destroyer will come against every town.</p>
<p class="poetry">Not one town will escape.</p>
<p class="poetry">The towns in the valley will be destroyed.</p>
<p class="poetry">The cities on the high plain will be laid waste. </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have spoken. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:9</span> Set up a gravestone for Moab,</p>
<p class="poetry">for it will certainly be laid in ruins! </p>
<p class="poetry">Its cities will be laid waste</p>
<p class="poetry">and become uninhabited.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:10</span> A curse on anyone who is lax in doing the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s work!</p>
<p class="poetry">A curse on anyone who keeps from carrying out his destruction! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>48:11</span> “From its earliest days Moab has lived undisturbed.</p>
<p class="poetry">It has never been taken into exile.</p>
<p class="poetry">Its people are like wine allowed to settle undisturbed on its dregs,</p>
<p class="poetry">never poured out from one jar to another.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are like wine that tastes like it always did,</p>
<p class="poetry">whose aroma has remained unchanged. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:12</span> But the time is coming when I will send</p>
<p class="poetry">men against Moab who will empty it out.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will empty the towns of their people,</p>
<p class="poetry">then will lay those towns in ruins. </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:13</span> The people of Moab will be disappointed by their god Chemosh.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will be as disappointed as the people of Israel were </p>
<p class="poetry">when they put their trust in the calf god at Bethel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:14</span> How can you men of Moab say, ‘We are heroes,</p>
<p class="poetry">men who are mighty in battle?’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:15</span> Moab will be destroyed. Its towns will be invaded.</p>
<p class="poetry">Its finest young men will be slaughtered. </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the King, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:16</span> Moab’s destruction is at hand.</p>
<p class="poetry">Disaster will come on it quickly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:17</span> Mourn for that nation, all you nations living around it,</p>
<p class="poetry">all you nations that know of its fame. </p>
<p class="poetry">Mourn and say, ‘Alas, its powerful influence has been broken!</p>
<p class="poetry">Its glory and power have been done away with!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:18</span> Come down from your place of honor;</p>
<p class="poetry">sit on the dry ground, you who live in Dibon. </p>
<p class="poetry">For the one who will destroy Moab will attack you;</p>
<p class="poetry">he will destroy your fortifications. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:19</span> You who live in Aroer, </p>
<p class="poetry">stand by the road and watch.</p>
<p class="poetry">Question the man who is fleeing and the woman who is escaping.</p>
<p class="poetry">Ask them, ‘What has happened?’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:20</span> They will answer, ‘Moab is disgraced, for it has fallen!</p>
<p class="poetry">Wail and cry out in mourning!</p>
<p class="poetry">Announce along the Arnon River</p>
<p class="poetry">that Moab has been destroyed.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>48:21</span> “Judgment will come on the cities on the high plain: on Holon, Jahzah, and Mephaath; <span>48:22</span> on Dibon, Nebo, and Beth Diblathaim; <span>48:23</span> on Kiriathaim, Beth Gamul, and Beth Meon; <span>48:24</span> on Kerioth and Bozrah. It will come on all the towns of Moab, both far and near. <span>48:25</span> Moab’s might will be crushed. Its power will be broken. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:26</span> “Moab has vaunted itself against me.</p>
<p class="poetry">So make him drunk with the wine of my wrath </p>
<p class="poetry">until he splashes around in his own vomit,</p>
<p class="poetry">until others treat him as a laughingstock. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:27</span> For did not you people of Moab laugh at the people of Israel?</p>
<p class="poetry">Did you think that they were nothing but thieves, </p>
<p class="poetry">that you shook your head in contempt </p>
<p class="poetry">every time you talked about them? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:28</span> Leave your towns, you inhabitants of Moab.</p>
<p class="poetry">Go and live in the cliffs.</p>
<p class="poetry">Be like a dove that makes its nest</p>
<p class="poetry">high on the sides of a ravine. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:29</span> I have heard how proud the people of Moab are,</p>
<p class="poetry">I know how haughty they are.</p>
<p class="poetry">I have heard how arrogant, proud, and haughty they are,</p>
<p class="poetry">what a high opinion they have of themselves. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:30</span> I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm that I know how arrogant they are.</p>
<p class="poetry">But their pride is ill founded.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their boastings will prove to be false. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:31</span> So I will weep with sorrow for Moab.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will cry out in sadness for all Moab.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will moan for the people of Kir Heres. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:32</span> I will weep for the grapevines of Sibmah</p>
<p class="poetry">just like the town of Jazer weeps over them. </p>
<p class="poetry">Their branches once spread as far as the Dead Sea. </p>
<p class="poetry">They reached as far as the town of Jazer. </p>
<p class="poetry">The destroyer will ravage </p>
<p class="poetry">her fig, date, and grape crops. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:33</span> Joy and gladness will disappear</p>
<p class="poetry">from the fruitful land of Moab. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will stop the flow of wine from the winepresses.</p>
<p class="poetry">No one will stomp on the grapes there and shout for joy. </p>
<p class="poetry">The shouts there will be shouts of soldiers,</p>
<p class="poetry">not the shouts of those making wine. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:34</span> Cries of anguish raised from Heshbon and Elealeh</p>
<p class="poetry">will be sounded as far as Jahaz. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will be sounded from Zoar as far as Horonaim and Eglath Shelishiyah.</p>
<p class="poetry">For even the waters of Nimrim will be dried up.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:35</span> I will put an end in Moab</p>
<p class="poetry">to those who make offerings at her places of worship. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will put an end to those who sacrifice to other gods.</p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:36</span> So my heart moans for Moab</p>
<p class="poetry">like a flute playing a funeral song.</p>
<p class="poetry">Yes, like a flute playing a funeral song,</p>
<p class="poetry">my heart moans for the people of Kir Heres.</p>
<p class="poetry">For the wealth they have gained will perish. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:37</span> For all of them will shave their heads in mourning.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will all cut off their beards to show their sorrow.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will all make gashes in their hands.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will all put on sackcloth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:38</span> On all the housetops in Moab</p>
<p class="poetry">and in all its public squares</p>
<p class="poetry">there will be nothing but mourning.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I will break Moab like an unwanted jar.</p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:39</span> Oh, how shattered Moab will be! </p>
<p class="poetry">Oh, how her people will wail!</p>
<p class="poetry">Oh, how she will turn away in shame!</p>
<p class="poetry">Moab will become an object of ridicule,</p>
<p class="poetry">a terrifying sight to all the nations that surround her.”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>48:40</span> For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says,</p>
<p class="poetry">“Look! Like an eagle with outspread wings</p>
<p class="poetry">a nation will swoop down on Moab. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:41</span> Her towns will be captured;</p>
<p class="poetry">her fortresses will be taken.</p>
<p class="poetry">At that time the soldiers of Moab will be frightened </p>
<p class="poetry">like a woman in labor. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:42</span> Moab will be destroyed and no longer be a nation, </p>
<p class="poetry">because she has vaunted herself against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:43</span> Terror, pits, and traps are in store</p>
<p class="poetry">for the people who live in Moab. </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:44</span> Anyone who flees at the sound of terror</p>
<p class="poetry">will fall into a pit.</p>
<p class="poetry">Anyone who climbs out of the pit</p>
<p class="poetry">will be caught in a trap. </p>
<p class="poetry">For the time is coming</p>
<p class="poetry">when I will punish the people of Moab. </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:45</span> In the shadows of the walls of Heshbon</p>
<p class="poetry">those trying to escape will stand helpless.</p>
<p class="poetry">For a fire will burst forth from Heshbon.</p>
<p class="poetry">Flames will shoot out from the former territory of Sihon.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will burn the foreheads of the people of Moab,</p>
<p class="poetry">the skulls of those war-loving people. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:46</span> Moab, you are doomed! </p>
<p class="poetry">You people who worship Chemosh will be destroyed.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your sons will be taken away captive.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your daughters will be carried away into exile. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>48:47</span> Yet in future days </p>
<p class="poetry">I will reverse Moab’s ill fortune,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext">The judgment against Moab ends here. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file816.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file818.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
