<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Exodus 6</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file57.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file59.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Exodus<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 6</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:1</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to Moses, “Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh, for compelled by my strong hand he will release them, and by my strong hand he will drive them out of his land.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:2</span> God spoke to Moses and said to him, “I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>6:3</span> I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty, but by my name ‘the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’ I was not known to them. <span>6:4</span> I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, where they were living as resident foreigners. <span>6:5</span> I have also heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. <span>6:6</span> Therefore, tell the Israelites, ‘I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. I will bring you out from your enslavement to the Egyptians, I will rescue you from the hard labor they impose, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. <span>6:7</span> I will take you to myself for a people, and I will be your God. Then you will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God, who brought you out from your enslavement to the Egyptians. <span>6:8</span> I will bring you to the land I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob—and I will give it to you as a possession. I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:9</span>  Moses told this to the Israelites, but they did not listen to him because of their discouragement and hard labor. <span>6:10</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to Moses, <span>6:11</span> “Go, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt that he must release the Israelites from his land.” <span>6:12</span> But Moses replied to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, “If the Israelites did not listen to me, then how will Pharaoh listen to me, since I speak with difficulty?” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:13</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses and Aaron and gave them a charge for the Israelites and Pharaoh king of Egypt to bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Ancestry of Moses and Aaron</p><p class="bodytext"><span>6:14</span>  These were the heads of their fathers’ households: </p>
<p class="bodytext">The sons of Reuben, the firstborn son of Israel, were Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. These were the clans of Reuben. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:15</span> The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman. These were the clans of Simeon. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:16</span> Now these were the names of the sons of Levi, according to their records: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. (The length of Levi’s life was 137 years.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:17</span> The sons of Gershon, by their families, were Libni and Shimei. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:18</span> The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. (The length of Kohath’s life was 133 years.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:19</span> The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. These were the clans of Levi, according to their records. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:20</span> Amram married his father’s sister Jochebed, and she bore him Aaron and Moses. (The length of Amram’s life was 137 years.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:21</span> The sons of Izhar were Korah, Nepheg, and Zikri. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:22</span> The sons of Uzziel were Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:23</span> Aaron married Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon, and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:24</span> The sons of Korah were Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These were the Korahite clans. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:25</span> Now Eleazar son of Aaron married one of the daughters of Putiel and she bore him Phinehas.</p>
<p class="bodytext">These were the heads of the fathers’ households of Levi according to their clans. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:26</span> It was the same Aaron and Moses to whom the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, “Bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt by their regiments.” <span>6:27</span> They were the men who were speaking to Pharaoh king of Egypt, in order to bring the Israelites out of Egypt. It was the same Moses and Aaron. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Authentication of the Word</p><p class="bodytext"><span>6:28</span>  When the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, <span>6:29</span> he said to him, “I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. Tell Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I am telling you.” <span>6:30</span> But Moses said before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, “Since I speak with difficulty, why should Pharaoh listen to me?” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file57.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file59.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
