<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Psalms 119</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file615.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file617.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h2 class="calibre3">Psalm 119</h2><p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">א</span> (<i class="calibre10">Alef</i>) </p><p class="poetry"><span>119:1</span> How blessed are those whose actions are blameless, </p>
<p class="poetry">who obey the law of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:2</span> How blessed are those who observe his rules,</p>
<p class="poetry">and seek him with all their heart, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:3</span> who, moreover, do no wrong,</p>
<p class="poetry">but follow in his footsteps. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:4</span> You demand that your precepts</p>
<p class="poetry">be carefully kept. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:5</span> If only I were predisposed </p>
<p class="poetry">to keep your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:6</span> Then I would not be ashamed,</p>
<p class="poetry">if I were focused on all your commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:7</span> I will give you sincere thanks, </p>
<p class="poetry">when I learn your just regulations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:8</span> I will keep your statutes.</p>
<p class="poetry">Do not completely abandon me. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ב</span> (<i class="calibre10">Bet</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:9</span> How can a young person maintain a pure life? </p>
<p class="poetry">By guarding it according to your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:10</span> With all my heart I seek you.</p>
<p class="poetry">Do not allow me to stray from your commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:11</span> In my heart I store up your words, </p>
<p class="poetry">so I might not sin against you.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:12</span> You deserve praise, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:13</span> With my lips I proclaim</p>
<p class="poetry">all the regulations you have revealed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:14</span> I rejoice in the lifestyle prescribed by your rules </p>
<p class="poetry">as if they were riches of all kinds. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:15</span> I will meditate on your precepts</p>
<p class="poetry">and focus on your behavior. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:16</span> I find delight in your statutes;</p>
<p class="poetry">I do not forget your instructions. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ג</span> (<i class="calibre10">Gimel</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:17</span> Be kind to your servant.</p>
<p class="poetry">Then I will live and keep your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:18</span> Open my eyes so I can truly see </p>
<p class="poetry">the marvelous things in your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:19</span> I am a resident foreigner in this land. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not hide your commands from me.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:20</span> I desperately long to know </p>
<p class="poetry">your regulations at all times. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:21</span> You reprimand arrogant people.</p>
<p class="poetry">Those who stray from your commands are doomed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:22</span> Spare me shame and humiliation,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I observe your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:23</span> Though rulers plot and slander me, </p>
<p class="poetry">your servant meditates on your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:24</span> Yes, I find delight in your rules;</p>
<p class="poetry">they give me guidance. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ד</span> (<i class="calibre10">Dalet</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:25</span> I collapse in the dirt. </p>
<p class="poetry">Revive me with your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:26</span> I told you about my ways and you answered me.</p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:27</span> Help me to understand what your precepts mean. </p>
<p class="poetry">Then I can meditate on your marvelous teachings. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:28</span> I collapse from grief.</p>
<p class="poetry">Sustain me by your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:29</span> Remove me from the path of deceit. </p>
<p class="poetry">Graciously give me your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:30</span> I choose the path of faithfulness;</p>
<p class="poetry">I am committed to your regulations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:31</span> I hold fast to your rules.</p>
<p class="poetry">O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, do not let me be ashamed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:32</span> I run along the path of your commands,</p>
<p class="poetry">for you enable me to do so. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ה</span> (<i class="calibre10">He</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:33</span> Teach me, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, the lifestyle prescribed by your statutes, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that I might observe it continually. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:34</span> Give me understanding so that I might observe your law,</p>
<p class="poetry">and keep it with all my heart. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:35</span> Guide me in the path of your commands,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I delight to walk in it. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:36</span> Give me a desire for your rules, </p>
<p class="poetry">rather than for wealth gained unjustly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:37</span> Turn my eyes away from what is worthless. </p>
<p class="poetry">Revive me with your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:38</span> Confirm to your servant your promise, </p>
<p class="poetry">which you made to the one who honors you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:39</span> Take away the insults that I dread. </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, your regulations are good. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:40</span> Look, I long for your precepts.</p>
<p class="poetry">Revive me with your deliverance. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ו</span> (<i class="calibre10">Vav</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:41</span> May I experience your loyal love, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">and your deliverance, as you promised. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:42</span> Then I will have a reply for the one who insults me, </p>
<p class="poetry">for I trust in your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:43</span> Do not completely deprive me of a truthful testimony, </p>
<p class="poetry">for I await your justice. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:44</span> Then I will keep your law continually</p>
<p class="poetry">now and for all time. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:45</span> I will be secure, </p>
<p class="poetry">for I seek your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:46</span> I will speak about your regulations before kings</p>
<p class="poetry">and not be ashamed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:47</span> I will find delight in your commands,</p>
<p class="poetry">which I love. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:48</span> I will lift my hands to your commands,</p>
<p class="poetry">which I love,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I will meditate on your statutes. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ז</span> (<i class="calibre10">Zayin</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:49</span> Remember your word to your servant,</p>
<p class="poetry">for you have given me hope. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:50</span> This is what comforts me in my trouble,</p>
<p class="poetry">for your promise revives me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:51</span> Arrogant people do nothing but scoff at me. </p>
<p class="poetry">Yet I do not turn aside from your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:52</span> I remember your ancient regulations, </p>
<p class="poetry">O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and console myself. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:53</span> Rage takes hold of me because of the wicked,</p>
<p class="poetry">those who reject your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:54</span> Your statutes have been my songs </p>
<p class="poetry">in the house where I live. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:55</span> I remember your name during the night, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I will keep your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:56</span> This has been my practice,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I observe your precepts. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ח</span> (<i class="calibre10">Khet</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:57</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is my source of security. </p>
<p class="poetry">I have determined to follow your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:58</span> I seek your favor with all my heart.</p>
<p class="poetry">Have mercy on me as you promised. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:59</span> I consider my actions </p>
<p class="poetry">and follow your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:60</span> I keep your commands eagerly</p>
<p class="poetry">and without delay. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:61</span> The ropes of the wicked tighten around me,</p>
<p class="poetry">but I do not forget your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:62</span> In the middle of the night I arise to thank you</p>
<p class="poetry">for your just regulations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:63</span> I am a friend to all your loyal followers, </p>
<p class="poetry">and to those who keep your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:64</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, your loyal love fills the earth.</p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your statutes! </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ט</span> (<i class="calibre10">Tet</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:65</span> You are good to your servant,</p>
<p class="poetry">O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, just as you promised. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:66</span> Teach me proper discernment and understanding.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I consider your commands to be reliable. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:67</span> Before I was afflicted I used to stray off, </p>
<p class="poetry">but now I keep your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:68</span> You are good and you do good.</p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:69</span> Arrogant people smear my reputation with lies, </p>
<p class="poetry">but I observe your precepts with all my heart. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:70</span> Their hearts are calloused, </p>
<p class="poetry">but I find delight in your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:71</span> It was good for me to suffer,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I might learn your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:72</span> The law you have revealed is more important to me</p>
<p class="poetry">than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">י</span> (<i class="calibre10">Yod</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:73</span> Your hands made me and formed me. </p>
<p class="poetry">Give me understanding so that I might learn your commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:74</span> Your loyal followers will be glad when they see me, </p>
<p class="poetry">for I find hope in your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:75</span> I know, <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, that your regulations are just.</p>
<p class="poetry">You disciplined me because of your faithful devotion to me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:76</span> May your loyal love console me,</p>
<p class="poetry">as you promised your servant. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:77</span> May I experience your compassion, so I might live.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I find delight in your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:78</span> May the arrogant be humiliated, for they have slandered me. </p>
<p class="poetry">But I meditate on your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:79</span> May your loyal followers turn to me,</p>
<p class="poetry">those who know your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:80</span> May I be fully committed to your statutes, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that I might not be ashamed. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">כ</span> (<i class="calibre10">Kaf</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:81</span> I desperately long for your deliverance.</p>
<p class="poetry">I find hope in your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:82</span> My eyes grow tired as I wait for your promise to be fulfilled. </p>
<p class="poetry">I say, “When will you comfort me?”</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:83</span> For I am like a wineskin dried up in smoke. </p>
<p class="poetry">I do not forget your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:84</span> How long must your servant endure this? </p>
<p class="poetry">When will you judge those who pursue me?</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:85</span> The arrogant dig pits to trap me, </p>
<p class="poetry">which violates your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:86</span> All your commands are reliable.</p>
<p class="poetry">I am pursued without reason. Help me!</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:87</span> They have almost destroyed me here on the earth,</p>
<p class="poetry">but I do not reject your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:88</span> Revive me with your loyal love,</p>
<p class="poetry">that I might keep the rules you have revealed. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ל</span> (<i class="calibre10">Lamed</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:89</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, your instructions endure;</p>
<p class="poetry">they stand secure in heaven. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:90</span> You demonstrate your faithfulness to all generations. </p>
<p class="poetry">You established the earth and it stood firm.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:91</span> Today they stand firm by your decrees,</p>
<p class="poetry">for all things are your servants. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:92</span> If I had not found encouragement in your law, </p>
<p class="poetry">I would have died in my sorrow. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:93</span> I will never forget your precepts,</p>
<p class="poetry">for by them you have revived me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:94</span> I belong to you. Deliver me!</p>
<p class="poetry">For I seek your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:95</span> The wicked prepare to kill me, </p>
<p class="poetry">yet I concentrate on your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:96</span> I realize that everything has its limits,</p>
<p class="poetry">but your commands are beyond full comprehension. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">מ</span> (<i class="calibre10">Mem</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:97</span> O how I love your law!</p>
<p class="poetry">All day long I meditate on it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:98</span> Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I am always aware of them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:99</span> I have more insight than all my teachers,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I meditate on your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:100</span> I am more discerning than those older than I,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I observe your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:101</span> I stay away from every evil path,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I might keep your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:102</span> I do not turn aside from your regulations,</p>
<p class="poetry">for you teach me.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:103</span> Your words are sweeter</p>
<p class="poetry">in my mouth than honey! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:104</span> Your precepts give me discernment.</p>
<p class="poetry">Therefore I hate all deceitful actions. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">נ</span> (<i class="calibre10">Nun</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:105</span> Your word is a lamp to walk by,</p>
<p class="poetry">and a light to illumine my path. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:106</span> I have vowed and solemnly sworn</p>
<p class="poetry">to keep your just regulations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:107</span> I am suffering terribly.</p>
<p class="poetry">O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, revive me with your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:108</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, please accept the freewill offerings of my praise. </p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your regulations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:109</span> My life is in continual danger, </p>
<p class="poetry">but I do not forget your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:110</span> The wicked lay a trap for me,</p>
<p class="poetry">but I do not wander from your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:111</span> I claim your rules as my permanent possession,</p>
<p class="poetry">for they give me joy. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:112</span> I am determined to obey your statutes</p>
<p class="poetry">at all times, to the very end. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><b class="calibre8"><span class="hebrew">ס</span> (</b><i class="calibre10">Samek</i><b class="calibre8">)</b></p><p class="poetry"><span>119:113</span> I hate people with divided loyalties, </p>
<p class="poetry">but I love your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:114</span> You are my hiding place and my shield.</p>
<p class="poetry">I find hope in your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:115</span> Turn away from me, you evil men,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I can observe the commands of my God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:116</span> Sustain me as you promised, so that I will live. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not disappoint me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:117</span> Support me, so that I will be delivered.</p>
<p class="poetry">Then I will focus on your statutes continually. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:118</span> You despise all who stray from your statutes,</p>
<p class="poetry">for such people are deceptive and unreliable. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:119</span> You remove all the wicked of the earth like slag. </p>
<p class="poetry">Therefore I love your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:120</span> My body trembles because I fear you; </p>
<p class="poetry">I am afraid of your judgments. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ע</span> (<i class="calibre10">Ayin</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:121</span> I do what is fair and right. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not abandon me to my oppressors. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:122</span> Guarantee the welfare of your servant. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not let the arrogant oppress me.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:123</span> My eyes grow tired as I wait for your deliverance, </p>
<p class="poetry">for your reliable promise to be fulfilled. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:124</span> Show your servant your loyal love. </p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:125</span> I am your servant. Give me insight,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I can understand your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:126</span> It is time for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> to act—</p>
<p class="poetry">they break your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:127</span> For this reason I love your commands</p>
<p class="poetry">more than gold, even purest gold. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:128</span> For this reason I carefully follow all your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry">I hate all deceitful actions. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">פ</span> (<i class="calibre10">Pe</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:129</span> Your rules are marvelous.</p>
<p class="poetry">Therefore I observe them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:130</span> Your instructions are a doorway through which light shines. </p>
<p class="poetry">They give insight to the untrained. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:131</span> I open my mouth and pant,</p>
<p class="poetry">because I long for your commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:132</span> Turn toward me and extend mercy to me,</p>
<p class="poetry">as you typically do to your loyal followers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:133</span> Direct my steps by your word. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not let any sin dominate me.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:134</span> Deliver me from oppressive men,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I can keep your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:135</span> Smile on your servant.</p>
<p class="poetry">Teach me your statutes! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:136</span> Tears stream down from my eyes, </p>
<p class="poetry">because people do not keep your law. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">צ</span> (<i class="calibre10">Tsade</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:137</span> You are just, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">and your judgments are fair. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:138</span> The rules you impose are just, </p>
<p class="poetry">and absolutely reliable. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:139</span> My zeal consumes me,</p>
<p class="poetry">for my enemies forget your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:140</span> Your word is absolutely pure,</p>
<p class="poetry">and your servant loves it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:141</span> I am insignificant and despised,</p>
<p class="poetry">yet I do not forget your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:142</span> Your justice endures, </p>
<p class="poetry">and your law is reliable. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:143</span> Distress and hardship confront me,</p>
<p class="poetry">yet I find delight in your commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:144</span> Your rules remain just. </p>
<p class="poetry">Give me insight so that I can live. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ק</span> (<i class="calibre10">Qof</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:145</span> I cried out with all my heart, “Answer me, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>!</p>
<p class="poetry">I will observe your statutes.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:146</span> I cried out to you, “Deliver me,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I can keep your rules.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:147</span> I am up before dawn crying for help.</p>
<p class="poetry">I find hope in your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:148</span> My eyes anticipate the nighttime hours,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that I can meditate on your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:149</span> Listen to me because of your loyal love.</p>
<p class="poetry">O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, revive me, as you typically do. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:150</span> Those who are eager to do wrong draw near;</p>
<p class="poetry">they are far from your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:151</span> You are near, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">and all your commands are reliable. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:152</span> I learned long ago that</p>
<p class="poetry">you ordained your rules to last. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ר</span> (<i class="calibre10">Resh</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:153</span> See my pain and rescue me.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I do not forget your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:154</span> Fight for me and defend me. </p>
<p class="poetry">Revive me with your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:155</span> The wicked have no chance for deliverance, </p>
<p class="poetry">for they do not seek your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:156</span> Your compassion is great, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">Revive me, as you typically do. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:157</span> The enemies who chase me are numerous. </p>
<p class="poetry">Yet I do not turn aside from your rules. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:158</span> I take note of the treacherous and despise them,</p>
<p class="poetry">because they do not keep your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:159</span> See how I love your precepts.</p>
<p class="poetry">O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, revive me with your loyal love. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:160</span> Your instructions are totally reliable;</p>
<p class="poetry">all your just regulations endure. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">שׂ</span>/<span class="hebrew">שׁ</span> (<i class="calibre10">Sin/Shin</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:161</span> Rulers pursue me for no reason,</p>
<p class="poetry">yet I am more afraid of disobeying your instructions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:162</span> I rejoice in your instructions,</p>
<p class="poetry">like one who finds much plunder. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:163</span> I hate and despise deceit;</p>
<p class="poetry">I love your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:164</span> Seven times a day I praise you</p>
<p class="poetry">because of your just regulations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:165</span> Those who love your law are completely secure; </p>
<p class="poetry">nothing causes them to stumble. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:166</span> I hope for your deliverance, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I obey your commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:167</span> I keep your rules;</p>
<p class="poetry">I love them greatly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:168</span> I keep your precepts and rules,</p>
<p class="poetry">for you are aware of everything I do. </p>
<p class="lamhebrew"><span class="hebrew">ת</span> (<i class="calibre10">Tav</i>)</p><p class="poetry"><span>119:169</span> Listen to my cry for help, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">Give me insight by your word. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:170</span> Listen to my appeal for mercy. </p>
<p class="poetry">Deliver me, as you promised. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:171</span> May praise flow freely from my lips,</p>
<p class="poetry">for you teach me your statutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:172</span> May my tongue sing about your instructions, </p>
<p class="poetry">for all your commands are just. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:173</span> May your hand help me,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I choose to obey your precepts. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:174</span> I long for your deliverance, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>;</p>
<p class="poetry">I find delight in your law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:175</span> May I live and praise you.</p>
<p class="poetry">May your regulations help me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>119:176</span> I have wandered off like a lost sheep. </p>
<p class="poetry">Come looking for your servant,</p>
<p class="poetry">for I do not forget your commands. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file615.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file617.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
