<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 6</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file774.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file776.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 6</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Destruction of Jerusalem Depicted</p><p class="poetry"><span>6:1</span> “Run for safety, people of Benjamin!</p>
<p class="poetry">Get out of Jerusalem! </p>
<p class="poetry">Sound the trumpet in Tekoa!</p>
<p class="poetry">Light the signal fires at Beth Hakkerem!</p>
<p class="poetry">For disaster lurks out of the north;</p>
<p class="poetry">it will bring great destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:2</span> I will destroy Daughter Zion, </p>
<p class="poetry">who is as delicate and defenseless as a young maiden. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:3</span> Kings will attack her with their armies. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will encamp in siege all around her. </p>
<p class="poetry">Each of them will devastate the portion assigned to him. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:4</span> They will say, ‘Prepare to do battle against it!</p>
<p class="poetry">Come on! Let’s attack it at noon!’</p>
<p class="poetry">But later they will say, ‘Woe to us! </p>
<p class="poetry">For the day is almost over,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the shadows of evening are getting long.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:5</span> So come on, let’s go ahead and attack it by night</p>
<p class="poetry">and destroy all its fortified buildings.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:6</span> All this is because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has said:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Cut down the trees around Jerusalem</p>
<p class="poetry">and build up a siege ramp against its walls. </p>
<p class="poetry">This is the city that is to be punished. </p>
<p class="poetry">Nothing but oppression happens in it. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:7</span> As a well continually pours out fresh water</p>
<p class="poetry">so it continually pours out wicked deeds. </p>
<p class="poetry">Sounds of violence and destruction echo throughout it. </p>
<p class="poetry">All I see are sick and wounded people.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:8</span> So take warning, Jerusalem,</p>
<p class="poetry">or I will abandon you in disgust </p>
<p class="poetry">and make you desolate,</p>
<p class="poetry">a place where no one can live.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:9</span> This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies said to me: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Those who remain in Israel will be </p>
<p class="poetry">like the grapes thoroughly gleaned from a vine.</p>
<p class="poetry">So go over them again, as though you were a grape harvester</p>
<p class="poetry">passing your hand over the branches one last time.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:10</span> I answered, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Who would listen</p>
<p class="poetry">if I spoke to them and warned them? </p>
<p class="poetry">Their ears are so closed </p>
<p class="poetry">that they cannot hear!</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message is offensive to them.</p>
<p class="poetry">They do not like it at all. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:11</span> I am as full of anger as you are, <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, </p>
<p class="poetry">I am tired of trying to hold it in.”</p>
<p class="bodytext">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> answered, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Vent it, then, on the children who play in the street</p>
<p class="poetry">and on the young men who are gathered together.</p>
<p class="poetry">Husbands and wives are to be included, </p>
<p class="poetry">as well as the old and those who are advanced in years. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:12</span> Their houses will be turned over to others</p>
<p class="poetry">as will their fields and their wives.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I will unleash my power </p>
<p class="poetry">against those who live in this land,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:13</span> “That is because, from the least important to the most important of them,</p>
<p class="poetry">all of them are greedy for dishonest gain.</p>
<p class="poetry">Prophets and priests alike,</p>
<p class="poetry">all of them practice deceit. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:14</span> They offer only superficial help </p>
<p class="poetry">for the harm my people have suffered. </p>
<p class="poetry">They say, ‘Everything will be all right!’</p>
<p class="poetry">But everything is not all right! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:15</span> Are they ashamed because they have done such shameful things?</p>
<p class="poetry">No, they are not at all ashamed.</p>
<p class="poetry">They do not even know how to blush!</p>
<p class="poetry">So they will die, just like others have died. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will be brought to ruin when I punish them,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:16</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to his people: </p>
<p class="poetry">“You are standing at the crossroads. So consider your path. </p>
<p class="poetry">Ask where the old, reliable paths are.</p>
<p class="poetry">Ask where the path is that leads to blessing and follow it.</p>
<p class="poetry">If you do, you will find rest for your souls.”</p>
<p class="poetry">But they said, “We will not follow it!”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:17</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“I appointed prophets as watchmen to warn you, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Pay attention to the warning sound of the trumpet!’” </p>
<p class="poetry">But they said, “We will not pay attention!” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:18</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Hear, you nations!</p>
<p class="poetry">Be witnesses and take note of what will happen to these people. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:19</span> Hear this, you peoples of the earth: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Take note! I am about to bring disaster on these people.</p>
<p class="poetry">It will come as punishment for their scheming. </p>
<p class="poetry">For they have paid no attention to what I have said, </p>
<p class="poetry">and they have rejected my law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:20</span> I take no delight when they offer up to me </p>
<p class="poetry">frankincense that comes from Sheba </p>
<p class="poetry">or sweet-smelling cane imported from a faraway land.</p>
<p class="poetry">I cannot accept the burnt offerings they bring me.</p>
<p class="poetry">I get no pleasure from the sacrifices they offer to me.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:21</span> So, this is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will assuredly make these people stumble to their doom. </p>
<p class="poetry">Parents and children will stumble and fall to their destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry">Friends and neighbors will die.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:22</span> This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Beware! An army is coming from a land in the north.</p>
<p class="poetry">A mighty nation is stirring into action in faraway parts of the earth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:23</span> Its soldiers are armed with bows and spears.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are cruel and show no mercy.</p>
<p class="poetry">They sound like the roaring sea</p>
<p class="poetry">as they ride forth on their horses.</p>
<p class="poetry">Lined up in formation like men going into battle</p>
<p class="poetry">to attack you, Daughter Zion.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:24</span> The people cry out, “We have heard reports about them.</p>
<p class="poetry">We have become helpless with fear! </p>
<p class="poetry">Anguish grips us,</p>
<p class="poetry">agony like that of a woman giving birth to a baby!</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:25</span> Do not go out into the countryside.</p>
<p class="poetry">Do not travel on the roads.</p>
<p class="poetry">For the enemy is there with sword in hand. </p>
<p class="poetry">They are spreading terror everywhere.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:26</span> So I said, “Oh, my dear people, put on sackcloth</p>
<p class="poetry">and roll in ashes.</p>
<p class="poetry">Mourn with painful sobs</p>
<p class="poetry">as though you had lost your only child.</p>
<p class="poetry">For any moment now that destructive army </p>
<p class="poetry">will come against us.”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:27</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to me, </p>
<p class="poetry">“I have made you like a metal assayer</p>
<p class="poetry">to test my people like ore. </p>
<p class="poetry">You are to observe them</p>
<p class="poetry">and evaluate how they behave.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:28</span> I reported, </p>
<p class="poetry">“All of them are the most stubborn of rebels! </p>
<p class="poetry">They are as hard as bronze or iron.</p>
<p class="poetry">They go about telling lies.</p>
<p class="poetry">They all deal corruptly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:29</span> The fiery bellows of judgment burn fiercely.</p>
<p class="poetry">But there is too much dross to be removed. </p>
<p class="poetry">The process of refining them has proved useless. </p>
<p class="poetry">The wicked have not been purged. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>6:30</span> They are regarded as ‘rejected silver’ </p>
<p class="poetry">because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> rejects them.”</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file774.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file776.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
