<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Joel 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file906.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file908.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Joel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Locusts’ Devastation</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:1</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion;</p>
<p class="poetry">sound the alarm signal on my holy mountain!</p>
<p class="poetry">Let all the inhabitants of the land shake with fear,</p>
<p class="poetry">for the day of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is about to come.</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, it is near! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:2</span> It will be a day of dreadful darkness, </p>
<p class="poetry">a day of foreboding storm clouds, </p>
<p class="poetry">like blackness spread over the mountains.</p>
<p class="poetry">It is a huge and powerful army —</p>
<p class="poetry">there has never been anything like it ever before,</p>
<p class="poetry">and there will not be anything like it for many generations to come! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:3</span> Like fire they devour everything in their path; </p>
<p class="poetry">a flame blazes behind them. </p>
<p class="poetry">The land looks like the Garden of Eden before them,</p>
<p class="poetry">but behind them there is only a desolate wilderness—</p>
<p class="poetry">for nothing escapes them! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:4</span> They look like horses; </p>
<p class="poetry">they charge ahead like war horses. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:5</span> They sound like chariots rumbling over mountain tops,</p>
<p class="poetry">like the crackling of blazing fire consuming stubble,</p>
<p class="poetry">like the noise of a mighty army being drawn up for battle. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:6</span> People writhe in fear when they see them. </p>
<p class="poetry">All their faces turn pale with fright. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:7</span> They charge like warriors;</p>
<p class="poetry">they scale walls like soldiers. </p>
<p class="poetry">Each one proceeds on his course;</p>
<p class="poetry">they do not alter their path. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:8</span> They do not jostle one another; </p>
<p class="poetry">each of them marches straight ahead. </p>
<p class="poetry">They burst through the city defenses </p>
<p class="poetry">and do not break ranks. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:9</span> They rush into the city;</p>
<p class="poetry">they scale its walls.</p>
<p class="poetry">They climb up into the houses;</p>
<p class="poetry">they go in through the windows like a thief. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:10</span> The earth quakes before them; </p>
<p class="poetry">the sky reverberates. </p>
<p class="poetry">The sun and the moon grow dark; </p>
<p class="poetry">the stars refuse to shine. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:11</span> The voice of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> thunders as he leads his army. </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, his warriors are innumerable; </p>
<p class="poetry">Surely his command is carried out! </p>
<p class="poetry">Yes, the day of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is awesome </p>
<p class="poetry">and very terrifying—who can survive it?</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">An Appeal for Repentance</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:12</span> “Yet even now,” the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says,</p>
<p class="poetry">“return to me with all your heart—</p>
<p class="poetry">with fasting, weeping, and mourning. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:13</span> Tear your hearts, </p>
<p class="poetry">not just your garments.”</p>
<p class="poetry">Return to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God,</p>
<p class="poetry">for he is merciful and compassionate, </p>
<p class="poetry">slow to anger and boundless in loyal love —often relenting from calamitous punishment. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:14</span> Who knows? </p>
<p class="poetry">Perhaps he will be compassionate and grant a reprieve, </p>
<p class="poetry">and leave blessing in his wake —</p>
<p class="poetry">a meal offering and a drink offering for you to offer to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:15</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion.</p>
<p class="poetry">Announce a holy fast;</p>
<p class="poetry">proclaim a sacred assembly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:16</span> Gather the people;</p>
<p class="poetry">sanctify an assembly!</p>
<p class="poetry">Gather the elders;</p>
<p class="poetry">gather the children and the nursing infants.</p>
<p class="poetry">Let the bridegroom come out from his bedroom</p>
<p class="poetry">and the bride from her private quarters. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:17</span> Let the priests, those who serve the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, weep</p>
<p class="poetry">from the vestibule all the way back to the altar. </p>
<p class="poetry">Let them say, “Have pity, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, on your people;</p>
<p class="poetry">please do not turn over your inheritance to be mocked,</p>
<p class="poetry">to become a proverb among the nations.</p>
<p class="poetry">Why should it be said among the peoples,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Where is their God?’ </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s Response</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:18</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> became zealous for his land;</p>
<p class="poetry">he had compassion on his people. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:19</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> responded to his people,</p>
<p class="poetry">“Look! I am about to restore your grain </p>
<p class="poetry">as well as fresh wine and olive oil.</p>
<p class="poetry">You will be fully satisfied. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will never again make you an object of mockery among the nations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:20</span> I will remove the one from the north far from you.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will drive him out to a dry and desolate place.</p>
<p class="poetry">Those in front will be driven eastward into the Dead Sea, </p>
<p class="poetry">and those in back westward into the Mediterranean Sea. </p>
<p class="poetry">His stench will rise up as a foul smell.” </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has accomplished great things! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:21</span> Do not fear, my land.</p>
<p class="poetry">Rejoice and be glad,</p>
<p class="poetry">because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has accomplished great things!</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:22</span> Do not fear, wild animals. </p>
<p class="poetry">For the pastures of the wilderness are again green with grass.</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, the trees bear their fruit;</p>
<p class="poetry">the fig tree and the vine yield to their fullest. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:23</span> Citizens of Zion, rejoice! </p>
<p class="poetry">Be glad because of what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God has done! </p>
<p class="poetry">For he has given to you the early rains as vindication.</p>
<p class="poetry">He has sent to you the rains—</p>
<p class="poetry">both the early and the late rains as formerly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:24</span> The threshing floors are full of grain;</p>
<p class="poetry">the vats overflow with fresh wine and olive oil. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:25</span> I will make up for the years </p>
<p class="poetry">that the <i class="calibre10">‘arbeh</i>-locust consumed your crops —</p>
<p class="poetry">the <i class="calibre10">yeleq</i>-locust, the <i class="calibre10">hasil</i>-locust, and the <i class="calibre10">gazam</i>-locust —</p>
<p class="poetry">my great army that I sent against you.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:26</span> You will have plenty to eat, </p>
<p class="poetry">and your hunger will be fully satisfied; </p>
<p class="poetry">you will praise the name of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God,</p>
<p class="poetry">who has acted wondrously in your behalf.</p>
<p class="poetry">My people will never again be put to shame. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:27</span> You will be convinced that I am in the midst of Israel.</p>
<p class="poetry">I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God; there is no other.</p>
<p class="poetry">My people will never again be put to shame. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">An Outpouring of the Spirit</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:28</span> (3:1) After all of this </p>
<p class="poetry">I will pour out my Spirit on all kinds of people. </p>
<p class="poetry">Your sons and daughters will prophesy.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your elderly will have prophetic dreams; </p>
<p class="poetry">your young men will see visions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:29</span> Even on male and female servants</p>
<p class="poetry">I will pour out my Spirit in those days. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:30</span> I will produce portents both in the sky and on the earth—</p>
<p class="poetry">blood, fire, and columns of smoke. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:31</span> The sunlight will be turned to darkness</p>
<p class="poetry">and the moon to the color of blood, </p>
<p class="poetry">before the day of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> comes—</p>
<p class="poetry">that great and terrible day! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:32</span> It will so happen that </p>
<p class="poetry">everyone who calls on the name of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will be delivered. </p>
<p class="poetry">For on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be those who survive, </p>
<p class="poetry">just as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has promised;</p>
<p class="poetry">the remnant will be those whom the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will call. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file906.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file908.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
