<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 20</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file788.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file790.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 20</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jeremiah is Flogged and Put in A Cell</p><p class="bodytext"><span>20:1</span> Now Pashhur son of Immer heard Jeremiah prophesy these things. He was the priest who was chief of security in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple. <span>20:2</span> When he heard Jeremiah’s prophecy, he had the prophet flogged. Then he put him in the stocks that were at the Upper Gate of Benjamin in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple. <span>20:3</span> But the next day Pashhur released Jeremiah from the stocks. When he did, Jeremiah said to him, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s name for you is not ‘Pashhur’ but ‘Terror is Everywhere.’ <span>20:4</span> For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, ‘I will make both you and your friends terrified of what will happen to you. You will see all of them die by the swords of their enemies. I will hand all the people of Judah over to the king of Babylon. He will carry some of them away into exile in Babylon and he will kill others of them with the sword. <span>20:5</span> I will hand over all the wealth of this city to their enemies. I will hand over to them all the fruits of the labor of the people of this city and all their prized possessions, as well as all the treasures of the kings of Judah. Their enemies will seize it all as plunder and carry it off to Babylon. <span>20:6</span> You, Pashhur, and all your household will go into exile in Babylon. You will die there and you will be buried there. The same thing will happen to all your friends to whom you have prophesied lies.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jeremiah Complains about the Reaction to His Ministry</p><p class="poetry"><span>20:7</span> <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, you coerced me into being a prophet, </p>
<p class="poetry">and I allowed you to do it.</p>
<p class="poetry">You overcame my resistance and prevailed over me. </p>
<p class="poetry">Now I have become a constant laughingstock.</p>
<p class="poetry">Everyone ridicules me.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:8</span> For whenever I prophesy, I must cry out, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Violence and destruction are coming!” </p>
<p class="poetry">This message from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has made me</p>
<p class="poetry">an object of continual insults and derision. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:9</span> Sometimes I think, “I will make no mention of his message.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will not speak as his messenger anymore.”</p>
<p class="poetry">But then his message becomes like a fire</p>
<p class="poetry">locked up inside of me, burning in my heart and soul. </p>
<p class="poetry">I grow weary of trying to hold it in;</p>
<p class="poetry">I cannot contain it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:10</span> I hear many whispering words of intrigue against me.</p>
<p class="poetry">Those who would cause me terror are everywhere! </p>
<p class="poetry">They are saying, “Come on, let’s publicly denounce him!” </p>
<p class="poetry">All my so-called friends are just watching for </p>
<p class="poetry">something that would lead to my downfall. </p>
<p class="poetry">They say, “Perhaps he can be enticed into slipping up,</p>
<p class="poetry">so we can prevail over him and get our revenge on him.”</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:11</span> But the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is with me to help me like an awe-inspiring warrior. </p>
<p class="poetry">Therefore those who persecute me will fail and will not prevail over me.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will be thoroughly disgraced because they did not succeed.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their disgrace will never be forgotten. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:12</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, you test and prove the righteous.</p>
<p class="poetry">You see into people’s hearts and minds. </p>
<p class="poetry">Pay them back for what they have done</p>
<p class="poetry">because I trust you to vindicate my cause. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:13</span> Sing to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>! Praise the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>!</p>
<p class="poetry">For he rescues the oppressed from the clutches of evildoers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:14</span> Cursed be the day I was born!</p>
<p class="poetry">May that day not be blessed when my mother gave birth to me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:15</span> Cursed be the man</p>
<p class="poetry">who made my father very glad</p>
<p class="poetry">when he brought him the news</p>
<p class="poetry">that a baby boy had been born to him! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:16</span> May that man be like the cities </p>
<p class="poetry">that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> destroyed without showing any mercy.</p>
<p class="poetry">May he hear a cry of distress in the morning</p>
<p class="poetry">and a battle cry at noon. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:17</span> For he did not kill me before I came from the womb,</p>
<p class="poetry">making my pregnant mother’s womb my grave forever. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>20:18</span> Why did I ever come forth from my mother’s womb?</p>
<p class="poetry">All I experience is trouble and grief,</p>
<p class="poetry">and I spend my days in shame. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file788.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file790.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
