<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Haggai 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file947.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file949.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Haggai<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Glory to Come</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:1</span> On the twenty-first day of the seventh month, the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came through the prophet Haggai again: <span>2:2</span> “Ask the following questions to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, the high priest Joshua son of Jehozadak, and the remnant of the people: <span>2:3</span> ‘Who among you survivors saw the former splendor of this temple? How does it look to you now? Isn’t it nothing by comparison?’ <span>2:4</span> Even so, take heart, Zerubbabel,” decrees the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. “Take heart, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest. And take heart all you citizens of the land,” decrees the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, “and begin to work. For I am with you,” decrees the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. <span>2:5</span> “Do not fear, because I made a promise to your ancestors when they left Egypt, and my Spirit even now testifies to you.” <span>2:6</span> Moreover, this is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has said: “In just a little while I will once again shake the sky and the earth, the sea and the dry ground. <span>2:7</span> I will also shake up all the nations, and they will offer their treasures; then I will fill this temple with glory.” So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has said. <span>2:8</span> “The silver and gold will be mine,” decrees the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. <span>2:9</span> “The future splendor of this temple will be greater than that of former times,” the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has declared. “And in this place I will give peace,” decrees the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Promised Blessing</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:10</span> On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month of Darius’ second year, the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to the prophet Haggai: <span>2:11</span> “This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has said, ‘Ask the priests about the law. <span>2:12</span> If someone carries holy meat in a fold of his garment and that fold touches bread, a boiled dish, wine, olive oil, or any other food, will that item become holy?’” The priests answered, “It will not.” <span>2:13</span> Then Haggai asked, “If a person who is ritually unclean because of touching a dead body comes in contact with one of these items, will it become unclean?” The priests answered, “It will be unclean.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:14</span> Then Haggai responded, “‘The people of this nation are unclean in my sight,’ decrees the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. ‘And so is all their effort; everything they offer is also unclean. <span>2:15</span> Now therefore reflect carefully on the recent past, before one stone was laid on another in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple. <span>2:16</span> From that time when one came expecting a heap of twenty measures, there were only ten; when one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty measures from it, there were only twenty. <span>2:17</span> I struck all the products of your labor with blight, disease, and hail, and yet you brought nothing to me,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>2:18</span> ‘Think carefully about the past: from today, the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, to the day work on the temple of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> was resumed, think about it. <span>2:19</span> The seed is still in the storehouse, isn’t it? And the vine, fig tree, pomegranate, and olive tree have not produced. Nevertheless, from today on I will bless you.’”</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Zerubbabel the Chosen One</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:20</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Haggai a second time on the twenty-fourth day of the month: <span>2:21</span> “Tell Zerubbabel governor of Judah: ‘I am ready to shake the sky and the earth. <span>2:22</span> I will overthrow royal thrones and shatter the might of earthly kingdoms. I will overthrow chariots and those who ride them, and horses and their riders will fall as people kill one another. <span>2:23</span> On that day,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, ‘I will take you, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, my servant,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, ‘and I will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies.” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file947.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file949.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
