<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Mark 7</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1004.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1006.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Mark<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 7</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Breaking Human Traditions </p><p class="bodytext"><span>7:1</span> Now the Pharisees and some of the experts in the law who came from Jerusalem gathered around him. <span>7:2</span> And they saw that some of Jesus’ disciples ate their bread with unclean hands, that is, unwashed. <span>7:3</span> (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they perform a ritual washing, holding fast to the tradition of the elders. <span>7:4</span> And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. They hold fast to many other traditions: the washing of cups, pots, kettles, and dining couches.) <span>7:5</span> The Pharisees and the experts in the law asked him, “Why do your disciples not live according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with unwashed hands?” <span>7:6</span> He said to them, “Isaiah prophesied correctly about you hypocrites, as it is written:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">This people honors me with their lips,</i></b></p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">but their heart</i></b> <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">is far from me</b></i>.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:7</span> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">They worship me in vain,</i></b></p>
<p class="poetry"><i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">teaching as doctrine the commandments of men</b></i>.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>7:8</span> Having no regard for the command of God, you hold fast to human tradition.” <span>7:9</span> He also said to them, “You neatly reject the commandment of God in order to set up your tradition. <span>7:10</span> For Moses said, ‘<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">Honor your father and your mother</i></b>,’ and, ‘<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">Whoever insults his father or mother must be put to death</b></i>.’ <span>7:11</span> But you say that if anyone tells his father or mother, ‘Whatever help you would have received from me is <i class="calibre10">corban</i>’ (that is, a gift for God), <span>7:12</span> then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother. <span>7:13</span> Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like this.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>7:14</span> Then he called the crowd again and said to them, “Listen to me, everyone, and understand. <span>7:15</span> There is nothing outside of a person that can defile him by going into him. Rather, it is what comes out of a person that defiles him.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>7:17</span> Now when Jesus had left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about the parable. <span>7:18</span> He said to them, “Are you so foolish? Don’t you understand that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him? <span>7:19</span> For it does not enter his heart but his stomach, and then goes out into the sewer.” (This means all foods are clean.) <span>7:20</span> He said, “What comes out of a person defiles him. <span>7:21</span> For from within, out of the human heart, come evil ideas, sexual immorality, theft, murder, <span>7:22</span> adultery, greed, evil, deceit, debauchery, envy, slander, pride, and folly. <span>7:23</span> All these evils come from within and defile a person.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Syrophoenician Woman’s Faith </p><p class="bodytext"><span>7:24</span> After Jesus left there, he went to the region of Tyre. When he went into a house, he did not want anyone to know, but he was not able to escape notice. <span>7:25</span> Instead, a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit immediately heard about him and came and fell at his feet. <span>7:26</span> The woman was a Greek, of Syrophoenician origin. She asked him to cast the demon out of her daughter. <span>7:27</span> He said to her, “Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not right to take the children’s bread and to throw it to the dogs.” <span>7:28</span> She answered, “Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.” <span>7:29</span> Then he said to her, “Because you said this, you may go. The demon has left your daughter.” <span>7:30</span> She went home and found the child lying on the bed, and the demon gone. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Healing a Deaf Mute </p><p class="bodytext"><span>7:31</span> Then Jesus went out again from the region of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the region of the Decapolis. <span>7:32</span> They brought to him a deaf man who had difficulty speaking, and they asked him to place his hands on him. <span>7:33</span> After Jesus took him aside privately, away from the crowd, he put his fingers in the man’s ears, and after spitting, he touched his tongue. <span>7:34</span> Then he looked up to heaven and said with a sigh, “<i class="calibre10">Ephphatha</i>” (that is, “Be opened”). <span>7:35</span> And immediately the man’s ears were opened, his tongue loosened, and he spoke plainly. <span>7:36</span> Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone. But as much as he ordered them not to do this, they proclaimed it all the more. <span>7:37</span> People were completely astounded and said, “He has done everything well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak.” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1004.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1006.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
