<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ezekiel 17</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file844.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file846.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ezekiel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 17</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Parable of Two Eagles and a Vine</p><p class="bodytext"><span>17:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>17:2</span> “Son of man, offer a riddle, and tell a parable to the house of Israel. <span>17:3</span> Say to them: ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“‘A great eagle with broad wings, long feathers, </p>
<p class="poetry">with full plumage that was multi-hued, </p>
<p class="poetry">came to Lebanon and took the top of the cedar. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:4</span> He plucked off its topmost shoot;</p>
<p class="poetry">he brought it to a land of merchants</p>
<p class="poetry">and planted it in a city of traders. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:5</span> He took one of the seedlings of the land, </p>
<p class="poetry">placed it in a cultivated plot; </p>
<p class="poetry">a shoot by abundant water,</p>
<p class="poetry">like a willow he planted it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:6</span> It sprouted and became a vine,</p>
<p class="poetry">spreading low to the ground; </p>
<p class="poetry">its branches turning toward him, its roots were under itself. </p>
<p class="poetry">So it became a vine; it produced shoots and sent out branches. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:7</span> “‘There was another great eagle </p>
<p class="poetry">with broad wings and thick plumage. </p>
<p class="poetry">Now this vine twisted its roots toward him </p>
<p class="poetry">and sent its branches toward him</p>
<p class="poetry">to be watered from the soil where it was planted. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:8</span> In a good field, by abundant waters, it was planted </p>
<p class="poetry">to grow branches, bear fruit, and become a beautiful vine.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:9</span> “Say to them: ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“‘Will it prosper? </p>
<p class="poetry">Will he not rip out its roots</p>
<p class="poetry">and cause its fruit to rot and wither?</p>
<p class="poetry">All its foliage will wither. </p>
<p class="poetry">No strong arm or large army</p>
<p class="poetry">will be needed to pull it out by its roots. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:10</span> Consider! It is planted, but will it prosper? </p>
<p class="poetry">Will it not wither completely when the east wind blows on it? </p>
<p class="poetry">Will it not wither in the soil where it sprouted?’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:11</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>17:12</span> “Say to the rebellious house of Israel: ‘Don’t you know what these things mean?’ Say: ‘See here, the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and took her king and her officials prisoner and brought them to himself in Babylon. <span>17:13</span> He took one from the royal family, made a treaty with him, and put him under oath. He then took the leaders of the land <span>17:14</span> so it would be a lowly kingdom that could not rise on its own but had to keep its treaty with him in order to stand. <span>17:15</span> But this one from Israel’s royal family rebelled against the king of Babylon by sending his emissaries to Egypt to obtain horses and a large army. Will he prosper? Will the one doing these things escape? Can he break the covenant and escape? </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:16</span> “‘As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, surely in the city of the king who crowned him, whose oath he despised and whose covenant he broke—in the middle of Babylon he will die! <span>17:17</span> Pharaoh with his great army and mighty horde will not help him in battle, when siege ramps are erected and siege walls are built to kill many people. <span>17:18</span> He despised the oath by breaking the covenant. Take note —he gave his promise and did all these things. He will not escape! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:19</span> “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: As surely as I live, I will certainly repay him for despising my oath and breaking my covenant! <span>17:20</span> I will throw my net over him and he will be caught in my snare; I will bring him to Babylon and judge him there because of the unfaithfulness he committed against me. <span>17:21</span> All the choice men among his troops will die by the sword, and the survivors will be scattered to every wind. Then you will know that I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have spoken! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:22</span> “‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“‘I will take a sprig from the lofty top of the cedar and plant it. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will pluck from the top one of its tender twigs; </p>
<p class="poetry">I myself will plant it on a high and lofty mountain. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:23</span> I will plant it on a high mountain of Israel, </p>
<p class="poetry">and it will raise branches and produce fruit and become a beautiful cedar. </p>
<p class="poetry">Every bird will live under it; </p>
<p class="poetry">Every winged creature will live in the shade of its branches. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>17:24</span> All the trees of the field will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">I make the high tree low; I raise up the low tree. </p>
<p class="poetry">I make the green tree wither, and I make the dry tree sprout.</p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have spoken, and I will do it!’”</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file844.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file846.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
