<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 1 Chronicles 17</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file367.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file369.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">1 Chronicles<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 17</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">God Makes a Promise to David</p><p class="bodytext"><span>17:1</span> When David had settled into his palace, he said to Nathan the prophet, “Look, I am living in a palace made from cedar, while the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s covenant is under a tent.” <span>17:2</span> Nathan said to David, “You should do whatever you have in mind, for God is with you.”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:3</span> That night God told Nathan, <span>17:4</span> “Go, tell my servant David: ‘This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: “You must not build me a house in which to live. <span>17:5</span> For I have not lived in a house from the time I brought Israel up from Egypt to the present day. I have lived in a tent that has been in various places. <span>17:6</span> Wherever I moved throughout Israel, I did not say to any of the leaders whom I appointed to care for my people Israel, ‘Why have you not built me a house made from cedar?’”’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:7</span> “So now, say this to my servant David: ‘This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says: “I took you from the pasture and from your work as a shepherd to make you a leader of my people Israel. <span>17:8</span> I was with you wherever you went and I defeated all your enemies before you. Now I will make you as famous as the great men of the earth. <span>17:9</span> I will establish a place for my people Israel and settle them there; they will live there and not be disturbed anymore. Violent men will not oppress them again, as they did in the beginning <span>17:10</span> and during the time when I appointed judges to lead my people Israel. I will subdue all your enemies.</p>
<p class="bodytext">“‘“I declare to you that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will build a dynastic house for you! <span>17:11</span> When the time comes for you to die, I will raise up your descendant, one of your own sons, to succeed you, and I will establish his kingdom. <span>17:12</span> He will build me a house, and I will make his dynasty permanent. <span>17:13</span> I will become his father and he will become my son. I will never withhold my loyal love from him, as I withheld it from the one who ruled before you. <span>17:14</span> I will put him in permanent charge of my house and my kingdom; his dynasty will be permanent.”’” <span>17:15</span> Nathan told David all these words that were revealed to him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Praises God</p><p class="bodytext"><span>17:16</span> King David went in, sat before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and said: “Who am I, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God, and what is my family, that you should have brought me to this point? <span>17:17</span> And you did not stop there, O God! You have also spoken about the future of your servant’s family. You have revealed to me what men long to know, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God. <span>17:18</span> What more can David say to you? You have honored your servant; you have given your servant special recognition. <span>17:19</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, for the sake of your servant and according to your will, you have done this great thing in order to reveal your greatness. <span>17:20</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, there is none like you; there is no God besides you! What we heard is true! <span>17:21</span> And who is like your people, Israel, a unique nation in the earth? Their God went to claim a nation for himself! You made a name for yourself by doing great and awesome deeds when you drove out nations before your people whom you had delivered from the Egyptian empire and its gods. <span>17:22</span> You made Israel your very own nation for all time. You, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, became their God. <span>17:23</span> So now, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, may the promise you made about your servant and his family become a permanent reality! Do as you promised, <span>17:24</span> so it may become a reality and you may gain lasting fame, as people say, ‘The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies is the God of Israel.’ The dynasty of your servant David will be established before you, <span>17:25</span> for you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a dynasty for him. That is why your servant has had the courage to pray to you. <span>17:26</span> Now, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, you are the true God; you have made this good promise to your servant. <span>17:27</span> Now you are willing to bless your servant’s dynasty so that it may stand permanently before you, for you, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have blessed it and it will be blessed from now on into the future.” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file367.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file369.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
