<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Romans 11</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1101.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1103.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Romans<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 11</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Israel’s Rejection not Complete nor Final</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:1</span> So I ask, God has not rejected his people, has he? Absolutely not! For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin. <span>11:2</span> God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew! Do you not know what the scripture says about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel? <span>11:3</span> “Lord, <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars; I alone am left and they are seeking my life!</b></i>” <span>11:4</span> But what was the divine response to him? “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">I have kept</i></b> for myself <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">7,000 people</i></b> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">who have not bent the knee to Baal</i></b>.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:5</span> So in the same way at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. <span>11:6</span> And if it is by grace, it is no longer by works, otherwise grace would no longer be grace. <span>11:7</span> What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was diligently seeking, but the elect obtained it. The rest were hardened, <span>11:8</span> as it is written,</p>
<p class="poetry">“<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">God gave them a spirit of stupor</b>,</i></p>
<p class="poetry"><i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear</b></i>, </p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">to this very day</i>.</b>” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:9</span> And David says,</p>
<p class="poetry">“<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">Let their table become a snare and trap</b>,</i></p>
<p class="poetry"><i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">a stumbling block and a retribution for them</b>;</i> </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>11:10</span> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">let their eyes be darkened so that they may not see,</i></b></p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">and make their backs bend continually</i>.</b>” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:11</span> I ask then, they did not stumble into an irrevocable fall, did they? Absolutely not! But by their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make Israel jealous. <span>11:12</span> Now if their transgression means riches for the world and their defeat means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full restoration bring?</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:13</span> Now I am speaking to you Gentiles. Seeing that I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry, <span>11:14</span> if somehow I could provoke my people to jealousy and save some of them. <span>11:15</span> For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? <span>11:16</span> If the first portion of the dough offered is holy, then the whole batch is holy, and if the root is holy, so too are the branches. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:17</span> Now if some of the branches were broken off, and you, a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among them and participated in the richness of the olive root, <span>11:18</span> do not boast over the branches. But if you boast, remember that you do not support the root, but the root supports you. <span>11:19</span> Then you will say, “The branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in.” <span>11:20</span> Granted! They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear! <span>11:21</span> For if God did not spare the natural branches, perhaps he will not spare you. <span>11:22</span> Notice therefore the kindness and harshness of God—harshness toward those who have fallen, but God’s kindness toward you, provided you continue in his kindness; otherwise you also will be cut off. <span>11:23</span> And even they—if they do not continue in their unbelief—will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again. <span>11:24</span> For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree? </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:25</span> For I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceited: A partial hardening has happened to Israel until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. <span>11:26</span> And so all Israel will be saved, as it is written:</p>
<p class="poetry">“<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">The Deliverer will come out of Zion;</i></b></p>
<p class="poetry"><i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">he will remove ungodliness from Jacob</b></i>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>11:27</span> <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">And this is my covenant with them</b>,</i> </p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">when I take away their sins</i>.</b>” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:28</span> In regard to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but in regard to election they are dearly loved for the sake of the fathers. <span>11:29</span> For the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable. <span>11:30</span> Just as you were formerly disobedient to God, but have now received mercy due to their disobedience, <span>11:31</span> so they too have now been disobedient in order that, by the mercy shown to you, they too may now receive mercy. <span>11:32</span> For God has consigned all people to disobedience so that he may show mercy to them all. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:33</span> Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how unfathomable his ways! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>11:34</span> <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">For who has known the mind of the Lord</b>,</i></p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">or who has been his counselor?</i></b> </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>11:35</span> <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">Or who has first given to God</b>,</i> </p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">that God</i></b> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">needs to repay him?</i></b> </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>11:36</span> For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever! Amen. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1101.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1103.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
