<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 41</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file742.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file744.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 41</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Challenges the Nations</p><p class="poetry"><span>41:1</span> “Listen to me in silence, you coastlands! </p>
<p class="poetry">Let the nations find renewed strength!</p>
<p class="poetry">Let them approach and then speak;</p>
<p class="poetry">let us come together for debate. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:2</span> Who stirs up this one from the east? </p>
<p class="poetry">Who officially commissions him for service? </p>
<p class="poetry">He hands nations over to him, </p>
<p class="poetry">and enables him to subdue kings.</p>
<p class="poetry">He makes them like dust with his sword,</p>
<p class="poetry">like windblown straw with his bow. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:3</span> He pursues them and passes by unharmed; </p>
<p class="poetry">he advances with great speed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:4</span> Who acts and carries out decrees? </p>
<p class="poetry">Who summons the successive generations from the beginning?</p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, am present at the very beginning,</p>
<p class="poetry">and at the very end—I am the one. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:5</span> The coastlands see and are afraid;</p>
<p class="poetry">the whole earth trembles;</p>
<p class="poetry">they approach and come. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:6</span> They help one another; </p>
<p class="poetry">one says to the other, ‘Be strong!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:7</span> The craftsman encourages the metalsmith,</p>
<p class="poetry">the one who wields the hammer encourages the one who pounds on the anvil.</p>
<p class="poetry">He approves the quality of the welding, </p>
<p class="poetry">and nails it down so it won’t fall over. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Encourages His People</p><p class="poetry"><span>41:8</span> “You, my servant Israel,</p>
<p class="poetry">Jacob, whom I have chosen,</p>
<p class="poetry">offspring of Abraham my friend, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:9</span> you whom I am bringing back from the earth’s extremities,</p>
<p class="poetry">and have summoned from the remote regions—</p>
<p class="poetry">I told you, ‘You are my servant.’</p>
<p class="poetry">I have chosen you and not rejected you.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:10</span> Don’t be afraid, for I am with you!</p>
<p class="poetry">Don’t be frightened, for I am your God! </p>
<p class="poetry">I strengthen you—</p>
<p class="poetry">yes, I help you—</p>
<p class="poetry">yes, I uphold you with my victorious right hand! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:11</span> Look, all who were angry at you will be ashamed and humiliated;</p>
<p class="poetry">your adversaries will be reduced to nothing and perish. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:12</span> When you will look for your opponents, you will not find them;</p>
<p class="poetry">your enemies will be reduced to absolutely nothing. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:13</span> For I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God,</p>
<p class="poetry">the one who takes hold of your right hand,</p>
<p class="poetry">who says to you, ‘Don’t be afraid, I am helping you.’</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:14</span> Don’t be afraid, despised insignificant Jacob, </p>
<p class="poetry">men of Israel.</p>
<p class="poetry">I am helping you,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">your Protector, the Holy One of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:15</span> “Look, I am making you like a sharp threshing sledge,</p>
<p class="poetry">new and double-edged. </p>
<p class="poetry">You will thresh the mountains and crush them;</p>
<p class="poetry">you will make the hills like straw. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:16</span> You will winnow them and the wind will blow them away;</p>
<p class="poetry">the wind will scatter them.</p>
<p class="poetry">You will rejoice in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>;</p>
<p class="poetry">you will boast in the Holy One of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:17</span> The oppressed and the poor look for water, but there is none;</p>
<p class="poetry">their tongues are parched from thirst.</p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, will respond to their prayers; </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the God of Israel, will not abandon them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:18</span> I will make streams flow down the slopes</p>
<p class="poetry">and produce springs in the middle of the valleys.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will turn the wilderness into a pool of water</p>
<p class="poetry">and the arid land into springs. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:19</span> I will make cedars, acacias, myrtles, and olive trees grow in the wilderness;</p>
<p class="poetry">I will make evergreens, firs, and cypresses grow together in the arid rift valley. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:20</span> I will do this so people will observe and recognize,</p>
<p class="poetry">so they will pay attention and understand</p>
<p class="poetry">that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s power has accomplished this,</p>
<p class="poetry">and that the Holy One of Israel has brought it into being. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Challenges the Pagan Gods</p><p class="poetry"><span>41:21</span> “Present your argument,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“Produce your evidence,” says Jacob’s king. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:22</span> “Let them produce evidence! Let them tell us what will happen!</p>
<p class="poetry">Tell us about your earlier predictive oracles, </p>
<p class="poetry">so we may examine them and see how they were fulfilled. </p>
<p class="poetry">Or decree for us some future events! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:23</span> Predict how future events will turn out, </p>
<p class="poetry">so we might know you are gods.</p>
<p class="poetry">Yes, do something good or something bad, </p>
<p class="poetry">so we might be frightened and in awe. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:24</span> Look, you are nothing, and your accomplishments are nonexistent;</p>
<p class="poetry">the one who chooses to worship you is disgusting. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:25</span> I have stirred up one out of the north and he advances,</p>
<p class="poetry">one from the eastern horizon who prays in my name. </p>
<p class="poetry">He steps on rulers as if they were clay,</p>
<p class="poetry">like a potter treading the clay. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:26</span> Who decreed this from the beginning, so we could know?</p>
<p class="poetry">Who announced it ahead of time, so we could say, ‘He’s correct’?</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, none of them decreed it.</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, none of them announced it.</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, no one heard you say anything! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:27</span> I first decreed to Zion, ‘Look, here’s what will happen!’ </p>
<p class="poetry">I sent a herald to Jerusalem. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:28</span> I look, but there is no one,</p>
<p class="poetry">among them there is no one who serves as an adviser,</p>
<p class="poetry">that I might ask questions and receive answers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>41:29</span> Look, all of them are nothing, </p>
<p class="poetry">their accomplishments are nonexistent;</p>
<p class="poetry">their metal images lack any real substance. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file742.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file744.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
