<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Philippians 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1154.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1156.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Philippians<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Christian Unity and Christ’s Humility</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:1</span> Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort provided by love, any fellowship in the Spirit, any affection or mercy, <span>2:2</span> complete my joy and be of the same mind, by having the same love, being united in spirit, and having one purpose. <span>2:3</span> Instead of being motivated by selfish ambition or vanity, each of you should, in humility, be moved to treat one another as more important than yourself. <span>2:4</span> Each of you should be concerned not only about your own interests, but about the interests of others as well. <span>2:5</span> You should have the same attitude toward one another that Christ Jesus had, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:6</span>  who though he existed in the form of God </p>
<p class="poetry">did not regard equality with God</p>
<p class="poetry">as something to be grasped, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:7</span> but emptied himself</p>
<p class="poetry">by taking on the form of a slave, </p>
<p class="poetry">by looking like other men, </p>
<p class="poetry">and by sharing in human nature. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:8</span> He humbled himself, </p>
<p class="poetry">by becoming obedient to the point of death</p>
<p class="poetry">—even death on a cross! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:9</span> As a result God highly exalted him</p>
<p class="poetry">and gave him the name</p>
<p class="poetry">that is above every name, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:10</span> so that at the name of Jesus</p>
<p class="poetry">every knee will bow</p>
<p class="poetry">—in heaven and on earth and under the earth—</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:11</span> and every tongue confess</p>
<p class="poetry">that Jesus Christ is Lord</p>
<p class="poetry">to the glory of God the Father. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Lights in the World</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:12</span> So then, my dear friends, just as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence but even more in my absence, continue working out your salvation with awe and reverence, <span>2:13</span> for the one bringing forth in you both the desire and the effort—for the sake of his good pleasure—is God. <span>2:14</span> Do everything without grumbling or arguing, <span>2:15</span> so that you may be blameless and pure, children of God without blemish though you live in a crooked and perverse society, in which you shine as lights in the world <span>2:16</span> by holding on to the word of life so that on the day of Christ I will have a reason to boast that I did not run in vain nor labor in vain. <span>2:17</span> But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice together with all of you. <span>2:18</span> And in the same way you also should be glad and rejoice together with me. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Models for Ministry</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:19</span> Now I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be encouraged by hearing news about you. <span>2:20</span> For there is no one here like him who will readily demonstrate his deep concern for you. <span>2:21</span> Others are busy with their own concerns, not those of Jesus Christ. <span>2:22</span> But you know his qualifications, that like a son working with his father, he served with me in advancing the gospel. <span>2:23</span> So I hope to send him as soon as I know more about my situation, <span>2:24</span> though I am confident in the Lord that I too will be coming to see you soon. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:25</span> But for now I have considered it necessary to send Epaphroditus to you. For he is my brother, coworker and fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister to me in my need. <span>2:26</span> Indeed, he greatly missed all of you and was distressed because you heard that he had been ill. <span>2:27</span> In fact he became so ill that he nearly died. But God showed mercy to him—and not to him only, but also to me—so that I would not have grief on top of grief. <span>2:28</span> Therefore I am all the more eager to send him, so that when you see him again you can rejoice and I can be free from anxiety. <span>2:29</span> So welcome him in the Lord with great joy, and honor people like him, <span>2:30</span> since it was because of the work of Christ that he almost died. He risked his life so that he could make up for your inability to serve me. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1154.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1156.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
