<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 9</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file777.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file779.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 9</h1>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:1</span> (8:23) I wish that my head were a well full of water </p>
<p class="poetry">and my eyes were a fountain full of tears!</p>
<p class="poetry">If they were, I could cry day and night </p>
<p class="poetry">for those of my dear people who have been killed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:2</span> (9:1) I wish I had a lodging place in the wilderness</p>
<p class="poetry">where I could spend some time like a weary traveler. </p>
<p class="poetry">Then I would desert my people</p>
<p class="poetry">and walk away from them</p>
<p class="poetry">because they are all unfaithful to God,</p>
<p class="poetry">a congregation of people that has been disloyal to him.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Laments That He Has No Choice But to Judge Them</p><p class="bodytext"><span>9:3</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, </p>
<p class="poetry">“These people are like soldiers who have readied their bows.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their tongues are always ready to shoot out lies. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have become powerful in the land, </p>
<p class="poetry">but they have not done so by honest means. </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, they do one evil thing after another </p>
<p class="poetry">and do not pay attention to me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:4</span> Everyone must be on his guard around his friends.</p>
<p class="poetry">He must not even trust any of his relatives. </p>
<p class="poetry">For every one of them will find some way to cheat him. </p>
<p class="poetry">And all his friends will tell lies about him.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:5</span> One friend deceives another</p>
<p class="poetry">and no one tells the truth.</p>
<p class="poetry">These people have trained themselves to tell lies.</p>
<p class="poetry">They do wrong and are unable to repent. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:6</span> They do one act of violence after another,</p>
<p class="poetry">and one deceitful thing after another. </p>
<p class="poetry">They refuse to pay attention to me,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:7</span> Therefore the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“I will now purify them in the fires of affliction and test them.</p>
<p class="poetry">The wickedness of my dear people has left me no choice.</p>
<p class="poetry">What else can I do? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:8</span> Their tongues are like deadly arrows. </p>
<p class="poetry">They are always telling lies. </p>
<p class="poetry">Friendly words for their neighbors come from their mouths,</p>
<p class="poetry">but their minds are thinking up ways to trap them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:9</span> I will certainly punish them for doing such things!” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will certainly bring retribution on such a nation as this!” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Coming Destruction Calls For Mourning</p><p class="bodytext"><span>9:10</span> I said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“I will weep and mourn for the grasslands on the mountains; </p>
<p class="poetry">I will sing a mournful song for the pastures in the wilderness</p>
<p class="poetry">because they are so scorched no one travels through them.</p>
<p class="poetry">The sound of livestock is no longer heard there.</p>
<p class="poetry">Even the birds in the sky and the wild animals in the fields</p>
<p class="poetry">have fled and are gone.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:11</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins.</p>
<p class="poetry">Jackals will make their home there. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will destroy the towns of Judah</p>
<p class="poetry">so that no one will be able to live in them.”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:12</span> I said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Who is wise enough to understand why this has happened? </p>
<p class="poetry">Who has a word from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> that can explain it? </p>
<p class="poetry">Why does the land lie in ruins?</p>
<p class="poetry">Why is it as scorched as a desert through which no one travels?” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:13</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> answered, “This has happened because these people have rejected my laws that I gave them. They have not obeyed me or followed those laws. <span>9:14</span> Instead they have followed the stubborn inclinations of their own hearts. They have paid allegiance to the gods called Baal, as their fathers taught them to do. <span>9:15</span> So then, listen to what I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, say, ‘I will make these people eat the bitter food of suffering and drink the poison water of judgment. <span>9:16</span> I will scatter them among nations that neither they nor their ancestors have known anything about. I will send people chasing after them with swords until I have destroyed them.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:17</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies told me to say to this people: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Take note of what I say. </p>
<p class="poetry">Call for the women who mourn for the dead!</p>
<p class="poetry">Summon those who are the most skilled at it!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:18</span> I said, “Indeed, let them come quickly and sing a song of mourning for us.</p>
<p class="poetry">Let them wail loudly until tears stream from our own eyes</p>
<p class="poetry">and our eyelids overflow with water. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:19</span> For the sound of wailing is soon to be heard in Zion,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘We are utterly ruined! We are completely disgraced!</p>
<p class="poetry">For we have left our land,</p>
<p class="poetry">for our houses have been torn down!’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:20</span> I said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“So now, you wailing women, listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message. </p>
<p class="poetry">Open your ears to the message from his mouth.</p>
<p class="poetry">Teach your daughters this mournful song,</p>
<p class="poetry">and let every woman teach her neighbor this lament. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:21</span> ‘Death has climbed in through our windows.</p>
<p class="poetry">It has entered into our fortified houses.</p>
<p class="poetry">It has taken away our children who play in the streets.</p>
<p class="poetry">It has taken away our young men who gather in the city squares.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:22</span> Tell your daughters and neighbors, ‘The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“The dead bodies of people will lie scattered everywhere</p>
<p class="poetry">like manure scattered on a field.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will lie scattered on the ground </p>
<p class="poetry">like grain that has been cut down but has not been gathered.”’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:23</span>  The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says,</p>
<p class="poetry">“Wise people should not boast that they are wise.</p>
<p class="poetry">Powerful people should not boast that they are powerful. </p>
<p class="poetry">Rich people should not boast that they are rich. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:24</span> If people want to boast, they should boast about this:</p>
<p class="poetry">They should boast that they understand and know me.</p>
<p class="poetry">They should boast that they know and understand</p>
<p class="poetry">that I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, act out of faithfulness, fairness, and justice in the earth</p>
<p class="poetry">and that I desire people to do these things,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:25</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, “Watch out! The time is soon coming when I will punish all those who are circumcised only in the flesh. <span>9:26</span> That is, I will punish the Egyptians, the Judeans, the Edomites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, and all the desert people who cut their hair short at the temples. I will do so because none of the people of those nations are really circumcised in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s sight. Moreover, none of the people of Israel are circumcised when it comes to their hearts.” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file777.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file779.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
