<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 5</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file773.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file775.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 5</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Judah is Justly Deserving of Coming Judgment</p><p class="bodytext"><span>5:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Go up and down through the streets of Jerusalem. </p>
<p class="poetry">Look around and see for yourselves.</p>
<p class="poetry">Search through its public squares.</p>
<p class="poetry">See if any of you can find a single person</p>
<p class="poetry">who deals honestly and tries to be truthful. </p>
<p class="poetry">If you can, then I will not punish this city. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:2</span> These people make promises in the name of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry">But the fact is, what they swear to is really a lie.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:3</span> <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, I know you look for faithfulness. </p>
<p class="poetry">But even when you punish these people, they feel no remorse. </p>
<p class="poetry">Even when you nearly destroy them, they refuse to be corrected.</p>
<p class="poetry">They have become as hardheaded as a rock. </p>
<p class="poetry">They refuse to change their ways. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:4</span> I thought, “Surely it is only the ignorant poor who act this way. </p>
<p class="poetry">They act like fools because they do not know what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> demands. </p>
<p class="poetry">They do not know what their God requires of them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:5</span> I will go to the leaders </p>
<p class="poetry">and speak with them.</p>
<p class="poetry">Surely they know what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> demands. </p>
<p class="poetry">Surely they know what their God requires of them.” </p>
<p class="poetry">Yet all of them, too, have rejected his authority</p>
<p class="poetry">and refuse to submit to him. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:6</span> So like a lion from the thicket their enemies will kill them.</p>
<p class="poetry">Like a wolf from the rift valley they will destroy them.</p>
<p class="poetry">Like a leopard they will lie in wait outside their cities</p>
<p class="poetry">and totally destroy anyone who ventures out. </p>
<p class="poetry">For they have rebelled so much</p>
<p class="poetry">and done so many unfaithful things. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>5:7</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> asked, </p>
<p class="poetry">“How can I leave you unpunished, Jerusalem? </p>
<p class="poetry">Your people have rejected me</p>
<p class="poetry">and have worshiped gods that are not gods at all. </p>
<p class="poetry">Even though I supplied all their needs, they were like an unfaithful wife to me. </p>
<p class="poetry">They went flocking to the houses of prostitutes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:8</span> They are like lusty, well-fed stallions.</p>
<p class="poetry">Each of them lusts after his neighbor’s wife. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:9</span> I will surely punish them for doing such things!” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will surely bring retribution on such a nation as this!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:10</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> commanded the enemy, </p>
<p class="poetry">“March through the vineyards of Israel and Judah and ruin them. </p>
<p class="poetry">But do not destroy them completely.</p>
<p class="poetry">Strip off their branches</p>
<p class="poetry">for these people do not belong to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:11</span> For the nations of Israel and Judah </p>
<p class="poetry">have been very unfaithful to me,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:12</span> “These people have denied what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have said, ‘That is not so! </p>
<p class="poetry">No harm will come to us.</p>
<p class="poetry">We will not experience war and famine. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:13</span> The prophets will prove to be full of wind. </p>
<p class="poetry">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has not spoken through them. </p>
<p class="poetry">So, let what they say happen to them.’”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>5:14</span> Because of that, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of Heaven’s Armies said to me: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Because these people have spoken like this, </p>
<p class="poetry">I will make the words that I put in your mouth like fire.</p>
<p class="poetry">And I will make this people like wood, </p>
<p class="poetry">which the fiery judgments you speak will burn up.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:15</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, “Listen, nation of Israel! </p>
<p class="poetry">I am about to bring a nation from far away to attack you.</p>
<p class="poetry">It will be a nation that was founded long ago</p>
<p class="poetry">and has lasted for a long time.</p>
<p class="poetry">It will be a nation whose language you will not know.</p>
<p class="poetry">Its people will speak words that you will not be able to understand. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:16</span> All its soldiers are strong and mighty. </p>
<p class="poetry">Their arrows will send you to your grave. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:17</span> They will eat up your crops and your food.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will kill off your sons and your daughters.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will eat up your sheep and your cattle.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will destroy your vines and your fig trees. </p>
<p class="poetry">Their weapons will batter down </p>
<p class="poetry">the fortified cities you trust in.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>5:18</span> “Yet even then I will not completely destroy you,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>5:19</span> “So then, Jeremiah, when your people ask, ‘Why has the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God done all this to us?’ tell them, ‘It is because you rejected me and served foreign gods in your own land. So you must serve foreigners in a land that does not belong to you.’</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:20</span> “Proclaim this message among the descendants of Jacob. </p>
<p class="poetry">Make it known throughout Judah. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:21</span> Tell them: ‘Hear this,</p>
<p class="poetry">you foolish people who have no understanding,</p>
<p class="poetry">who have eyes but do not discern,</p>
<p class="poetry">who have ears but do not perceive: </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:22</span> ‘You should fear me!’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">‘You should tremble in awe before me! </p>
<p class="poetry">I made the sand to be a boundary for the sea,</p>
<p class="poetry">a permanent barrier that it can never cross.</p>
<p class="poetry">Its waves may roll, but they can never prevail.</p>
<p class="poetry">They may roar, but they can never cross beyond that boundary.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:23</span> But these people have stubborn and rebellious hearts.</p>
<p class="poetry">They have turned aside and gone their own way. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:24</span> They do not say to themselves, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Let us revere the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God.</p>
<p class="poetry">It is he who gives us the autumn rains and the spring rains at the proper time.</p>
<p class="poetry">It is he who assures us of the regular weeks of harvest.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:25</span> Your misdeeds have stopped these things from coming. </p>
<p class="poetry">Your sins have deprived you of my bounty.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:26</span> Indeed, there are wicked scoundrels among my people.</p>
<p class="poetry">They lie in wait like bird catchers hiding in ambush. </p>
<p class="poetry">They set deadly traps to catch people. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:27</span> Like a cage filled with the birds that have been caught, </p>
<p class="poetry">their houses are filled with the gains of their fraud and deceit. </p>
<p class="poetry">That is how they have gotten so rich and powerful. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:28</span> That is how they have grown fat and sleek. </p>
<p class="poetry">There is no limit to the evil things they do. </p>
<p class="poetry">They do not plead the cause of the fatherless in such a way as to win it.</p>
<p class="poetry">They do not defend the rights of the poor. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:29</span> I will certainly punish them for doing such things!” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will certainly bring retribution on such a nation as this! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:30</span> Something horrible and shocking</p>
<p class="poetry">is going on in the land of Judah:</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>5:31</span> The prophets prophesy lies.</p>
<p class="poetry">The priests exercise power by their own authority. </p>
<p class="poetry">And my people love to have it this way.</p>
<p class="poetry">But they will not be able to help you when the time of judgment comes! </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file773.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file775.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
