<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ecclesiastes 7</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file686.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file688.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ecclesiastes<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 7</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Life is Brief and Death is Certain</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:1</span> A good reputation is better than precious perfume; </p>
<p class="poetry">likewise, the day of one’s death is better than the day of one’s birth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:2</span> It is better to go to a funeral </p>
<p class="poetry">than a feast. </p>
<p class="poetry">For death is the destiny of every person, </p>
<p class="poetry">and the living should take this to heart. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:3</span> Sorrow is better than laughter,</p>
<p class="poetry">because sober reflection is good for the heart. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:4</span> The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning,</p>
<p class="poetry">but the heart of fools is in the house of merrymaking. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Frivolous Living Versus Wisdom</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:5</span> It is better for a person to receive a rebuke from those who are wise </p>
<p class="poetry">than to listen to the song of fools. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:6</span> For like the crackling of quick-burning thorns under a cooking pot,</p>
<p class="poetry">so is the laughter of the fool.</p>
<p class="poetry">This kind of folly also is useless. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Human Wisdom Overturned by Adversity</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:7</span> Surely oppression can turn a wise person into a fool; </p>
<p class="poetry">likewise, a bribe corrupts the heart. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:8</span> The end of a matter is better than its beginning;</p>
<p class="poetry">likewise, patience is better than pride. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:9</span> Do not let yourself be quickly provoked, </p>
<p class="poetry">for anger resides in the lap of fools. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:10</span> Do not say, “Why were the old days better than these days?” </p>
<p class="poetry">for it is not wise to ask that. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Wisdom Can Lengthen One’s Life</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:11</span> Wisdom, like an inheritance, is a good thing;</p>
<p class="poetry">it benefits those who see the light of day. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:12</span> For wisdom provides protection, </p>
<p class="poetry">just as money provides protection. </p>
<p class="poetry">But the advantage of knowledge is this:</p>
<p class="poetry">Wisdom preserves the life of its owner. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Wisdom Acknowledges God’s Orchestration of Life</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:13</span> Consider the work of God:</p>
<p class="poetry">For who can make straight what he has bent? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:14</span> In times of prosperity be joyful,</p>
<p class="poetry">but in times of adversity consider this:</p>
<p class="poetry">God has made one as well as the other, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that no one can discover what the future holds. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Exceptions to the Law of Retribution</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:15</span> During the days of my fleeting life I have seen both of these things:</p>
<p class="poetry">Sometimes a righteous person dies prematurely in spite of his righteousness,</p>
<p class="poetry">and sometimes a wicked person lives long in spite of his evil deeds.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:16</span> So do not be excessively righteous or excessively wise; </p>
<p class="poetry">otherwise you might be disappointed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:17</span> Do not be excessively wicked and do not be a fool;</p>
<p class="poetry">otherwise you might die before your time. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:18</span> It is best to take hold of one warning without letting go of the other warning; </p>
<p class="poetry">for the one who fears God will follow both warnings. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Wisdom Needed Because No One is Truly Righteous</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:19</span> Wisdom gives a wise person more protection </p>
<p class="poetry">than ten rulers in a city. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:20</span> For there is not one truly righteous person on the earth</p>
<p class="poetry">who continually does good and never sins. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:21</span> Also, do not pay attention to everything that people say;</p>
<p class="poetry">otherwise, you might even hear your servant cursing you.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:22</span> For you know in your own heart </p>
<p class="poetry">that you also have cursed others many times. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Human Wisdom is Limited</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:23</span> I have examined all this by wisdom;</p>
<p class="poetry">I said, “I am determined to comprehend this” —but it was beyond my grasp. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:24</span> Whatever has happened is beyond human understanding; </p>
<p class="poetry">it is far deeper than anyone can fathom. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">True Righteousness and Wisdom Are Virtually Nonexistent</p><p class="poetry"><span>7:25</span> I tried to understand, examine, and comprehend </p>
<p class="poetry">the role of wisdom in the scheme of things, </p>
<p class="poetry">and to understand the stupidity of wickedness and the insanity of folly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:26</span> I discovered this: </p>
<p class="poetry">More bitter than death is the kind of woman who is like a hunter’s snare; </p>
<p class="poetry">her heart is like a hunter’s net and her hands are like prison chains.</p>
<p class="poetry">The man who pleases God escapes her,</p>
<p class="poetry">but the sinner is captured by her.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:27</span> The Teacher says:</p>
<p class="poetry">I discovered this while trying to discover the scheme of things, item by item. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:28</span> What I have continually sought, I have not found;</p>
<p class="poetry">I have found only one upright man among a thousand,</p>
<p class="poetry">but I have not found one upright woman among all of them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>7:29</span> This alone have I discovered: God made humankind upright,</p>
<p class="poetry">but they have sought many evil schemes. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file686.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file688.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
