<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ezekiel 34</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file861.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file863.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ezekiel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 34</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Prophecy Against False Shepherds</p><p class="bodytext"><span>34:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>34:2</span> “Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy, and say to them—to the shepherds: ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who have been feeding themselves! Should not shepherds feed the flock? <span>34:3</span> You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the choice animals, but you do not feed the sheep! <span>34:4</span> You have not strengthened the weak, healed the sick, bandaged the injured, brought back the strays, or sought the lost, but with force and harshness you have ruled over them. <span>34:5</span> They were scattered because they had no shepherd, and they became food for every wild beast. <span>34:6</span> My sheep wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered over the entire face of the earth with no one looking or searching for them.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>34:7</span> “‘Therefore, you shepherds, listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message: <span>34:8</span> As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, my sheep have become prey and have become food for all the wild beasts. There was no shepherd, and my shepherds did not search for my flock, but fed themselves and did not feed my sheep. <span>34:9</span> Therefore, you shepherds, listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message. <span>34:10</span> This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Look, I am against the shepherds, and I will demand my sheep from their hand. I will no longer let them be shepherds; the shepherds will not feed themselves anymore. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, so that they will no longer be food for them.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>34:11</span> “‘For this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Look, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out. <span>34:12</span> As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his scattered sheep, so I will seek out my flock. I will rescue them from all the places where they have been scattered on a cloudy, dark day. <span>34:13</span> I will bring them out from among the peoples and gather them from foreign countries; I will bring them to their own land. I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the streams and all the inhabited places of the land. <span>34:14</span> In a good pasture I will feed them; the mountain heights of Israel will be their pasture. There they will lie down in a lush pasture, and they will feed on rich grass on the mountains of Israel. <span>34:15</span> I myself will feed my sheep and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>34:16</span> I will seek the lost and bring back the strays; I will bandage the injured and strengthen the sick, but the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them—with judgment! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>34:17</span> “‘As for you, my sheep, this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Look, I am about to judge between one sheep and another, between rams and goats. <span>34:18</span> Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must trample the rest of your pastures with your feet? When you drink clean water, must you muddy the rest of the water by trampling it with your feet? <span>34:19</span> As for my sheep, they must eat what you trampled with your feet and drink what you have muddied with your feet! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>34:20</span> “‘Therefore, this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says to them: Look, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep. <span>34:21</span> Because you push with your side and your shoulder, and thrust your horns at all the weak sheep until you scatter them abroad, <span>34:22</span> I will save my sheep; they will no longer be prey. I will judge between one sheep and another. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>34:23</span> “‘I will set one shepherd over them, and he will feed them—namely, my servant David. He will feed them and will be their shepherd. <span>34:24</span> I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them; I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have spoken! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>34:25</span> “‘I will make a covenant of peace with them and will rid the land of wild beasts, so that they can live securely in the wilderness and even sleep in the woods. <span>34:26</span> I will turn them and the regions around my hill into a blessing. I will make showers come down in their season; they will be showers that bring blessing. <span>34:27</span> The trees of the field will yield their fruit and the earth will yield its crops. They will live securely on their land; they will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, when I break the bars of their yoke and rescue them from the hand of those who enslaved them. <span>34:28</span> They will no longer be prey for the nations, and the wild beasts will not devour them. They will live securely, and no one will make them afraid. <span>34:29</span> I will prepare for them a healthy planting. They will no longer be victims of famine in the land and will no longer bear the insults of the nations. <span>34:30</span> Then they will know that I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> their God, am with them, and that they are my people, the house of Israel, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>34:31</span> And you, my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are my people, and I am your God, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file861.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file863.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
