<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 3</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file771.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file773.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 3</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:1</span> “If a man divorces his wife</p>
<p class="poetry">and she leaves him and becomes another man’s wife,</p>
<p class="poetry">he may not take her back again. </p>
<p class="poetry">Doing that would utterly defile the land. </p>
<p class="poetry">But you, Israel, have given yourself as a prostitute to many gods. </p>
<p class="poetry">So what makes you think you can return to me?” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:2</span> “Look up at the hilltops and consider this. </p>
<p class="poetry">Where have you not been ravished? </p>
<p class="poetry">You waited for those gods like a thief lying in wait in the wilderness. </p>
<p class="poetry">You defiled the land by your wicked prostitution to other gods. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:3</span> That is why the rains have been withheld</p>
<p class="poetry">and the spring rains have not come.</p>
<p class="poetry">Yet in spite of this you are obstinate as a prostitute. </p>
<p class="poetry">You refuse to be ashamed of what you have done.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:4</span> Even now you say to me, ‘You are my father! </p>
<p class="poetry">You have been my faithful companion ever since I was young. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:5</span> You will not always be angry with me, will you?</p>
<p class="poetry">You will not be mad at me forever, will you?’ </p>
<p class="poetry">That is what you say,</p>
<p class="poetry">but you continually do all the evil that you can.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:6</span> When Josiah was king of Judah, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to me, “Jeremiah, you have no doubt seen what wayward Israel has done. You have seen how she went up to every high hill and under every green tree to give herself like a prostitute to other gods. <span>3:7</span> Yet even after she had done all that, I thought that she might come back to me. But she did not. Her sister, unfaithful Judah, saw what she did. <span>3:8</span> She also saw that, because of wayward Israel’s adulterous worship of other gods, I sent her away and gave her divorce papers. But still her unfaithful sister Judah was not afraid, and she too went and gave herself like a prostitute to other gods. <span>3:9</span> Because she took her prostitution so lightly, she defiled the land through her adulterous worship of gods made of wood and stone. <span>3:10</span> In spite of all this, Israel’s sister, unfaithful Judah, has not turned back to me with any sincerity; she has only pretended to do so,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>3:11</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to me, “Under the circumstances, wayward Israel could even be considered less guilty than unfaithful Judah. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Calls on Israel and Judah to Repent</p><p class="bodytext"><span>3:12</span> “Go and shout this message to my people in the countries in the north. Tell them: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Come back to me, wayward Israel,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">‘I will not continue to look on you with displeasure. </p>
<p class="poetry">For I am merciful,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">‘I will not be angry with you forever. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:13</span> However, you must confess that you have done wrong </p>
<p class="poetry">and that you have rebelled against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God.</p>
<p class="poetry">You must confess that you have given yourself to foreign gods under every green tree</p>
<p class="poetry">and have not obeyed my commands,’ says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:14</span> “Come back to me, my wayward sons,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, “for I am your true master. If you do, I will take one of you from each town and two of you from each family group, and I will bring you back to Zion. <span>3:15</span> I will give you leaders who will be faithful to me. They will lead you with knowledge and insight. <span>3:16</span> In those days, your population will greatly increase in the land. At that time,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, “people will no longer talk about having the ark that contains the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s covenant with us. They will not call it to mind, remember it, or miss it. No, that will not be done anymore! <span>3:17</span> At that time the city of Jerusalem will be called the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s throne. All nations will gather there in Jerusalem to honor the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s name. They will no longer follow the stubborn inclinations of their own evil hearts. <span>3:18</span> At that time the nation of Judah and the nation of Israel will be reunited. Together they will come back from a land in the north to the land that I gave to your ancestors as a permanent possession.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:19</span> “I thought to myself, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Oh what a joy it would be for me to treat you like a son! </p>
<p class="poetry">What a joy it would be for me to give you a pleasant land,</p>
<p class="poetry">the most beautiful piece of property there is in all the world!’ </p>
<p class="poetry">I thought you would call me ‘Father’ </p>
<p class="poetry">and would never cease being loyal to me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:20</span> But, you have been unfaithful to me, nation of Israel, </p>
<p class="poetry">like an unfaithful wife who has left her husband,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:21</span> “A noise is heard on the hilltops.</p>
<p class="poetry">It is the sound of the people of Israel crying and pleading to their gods.</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed they have followed sinful ways; </p>
<p class="poetry">they have forgotten to be true to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> their God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:22</span> Come back to me, you wayward people.</p>
<p class="poetry">I want to cure your waywardness. </p>
<p class="poetry">Say, ‘Here we are. We come to you</p>
<p class="poetry">because you are the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:23</span> We know our noisy worship of false gods </p>
<p class="poetry">on the hills and mountains did not help us. </p>
<p class="poetry">We know that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God </p>
<p class="poetry">is the only one who can deliver Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:24</span> From earliest times our worship of that shameful god, Baal, </p>
<p class="poetry">has taken away all that our ancestors worked for.</p>
<p class="poetry">It has taken away our flocks and our herds</p>
<p class="poetry">and even our sons and daughters. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>3:25</span> Let us acknowledge our shame.</p>
<p class="poetry">Let us bear the disgrace that we deserve. </p>
<p class="poetry">For we have sinned against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God,</p>
<p class="poetry">both we and our ancestors.</p>
<p class="poetry">From earliest times to this very day</p>
<p class="poetry">we have not obeyed the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God.’ </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file771.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file773.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
