<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 65</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file766.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file768.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 65</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Will Distinguish Between Sinners and the Godly</p><p class="poetry"><span>65:1</span> “I made myself available to those who did not ask for me; </p>
<p class="poetry">I appeared to those who did not look for me. </p>
<p class="poetry">I said, ‘Here I am! Here I am!’</p>
<p class="poetry">to a nation that did not invoke my name. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:2</span> I spread out my hands all day long</p>
<p class="poetry">to my rebellious people,</p>
<p class="poetry">who lived in a way that is morally unacceptable,</p>
<p class="poetry">and who did what they desired. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:3</span> These people continually and blatantly offend me </p>
<p class="poetry">as they sacrifice in their sacred orchards </p>
<p class="poetry">and burn incense on brick altars. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:4</span> They sit among the tombs </p>
<p class="poetry">and keep watch all night long. </p>
<p class="poetry">They eat pork, </p>
<p class="poetry">and broth from unclean sacrificial meat is in their pans. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:5</span> They say, ‘Keep to yourself!</p>
<p class="poetry">Don’t get near me, for I am holier than you!’</p>
<p class="poetry">These people are like smoke in my nostrils,</p>
<p class="poetry">like a fire that keeps burning all day long.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:6</span> Look, I have decreed: </p>
<p class="poetry">I will not keep silent, but will pay them back;</p>
<p class="poetry">I will pay them back exactly what they deserve, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:7</span> for your sins and your ancestors’ sins,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“Because they burned incense on the mountains</p>
<p class="poetry">and offended me on the hills,</p>
<p class="poetry">I will punish them in full measure.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>65:8</span> This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“When juice is discovered in a cluster of grapes,</p>
<p class="poetry">someone says, ‘Don’t destroy it, for it contains juice.’ </p>
<p class="poetry">So I will do for the sake of my servants—</p>
<p class="poetry">I will not destroy everyone. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:9</span> I will bring forth descendants from Jacob,</p>
<p class="poetry">and from Judah people to take possession of my mountains.</p>
<p class="poetry">My chosen ones will take possession of the land; </p>
<p class="poetry">my servants will live there. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:10</span> Sharon will become a pasture for sheep,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the Valley of Achor a place where cattle graze; </p>
<p class="poetry">they will belong to my people, who seek me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:11</span> But as for you who abandon the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span></p>
<p class="poetry">and forget about worshiping at my holy mountain,</p>
<p class="poetry">who prepare a feast for the god called ‘Fortune,’ </p>
<p class="poetry">and fill up wine jugs for the god called ‘Destiny’ —</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:12</span> I predestine you to die by the sword, </p>
<p class="poetry">all of you will kneel down at the slaughtering block, </p>
<p class="poetry">because I called to you, and you did not respond;</p>
<p class="poetry">I spoke and you did not listen.</p>
<p class="poetry">You did evil before me; </p>
<p class="poetry">you chose to do what displeases me.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>65:13</span> So this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Look, my servants will eat, but you will be hungry.</p>
<p class="poetry">Look, my servants will drink, but you will be thirsty.</p>
<p class="poetry">Look, my servants will rejoice, but you will be humiliated. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:14</span> Look, my servants will shout for joy as happiness fills their hearts. </p>
<p class="poetry">But you will cry out as sorrow fills your hearts; </p>
<p class="poetry">you will wail because your spirits will be crushed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:15</span> Your names will live on in the curse formulas of my chosen ones. </p>
<p class="poetry">The Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will kill you,</p>
<p class="poetry">but he will give his servants another name. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:16</span> Whoever pronounces a blessing in the earth </p>
<p class="poetry">will do so in the name of the faithful God; </p>
<p class="poetry">whoever makes an oath in the earth</p>
<p class="poetry">will do so in the name of the faithful God. </p>
<p class="poetry">For past problems will be forgotten;</p>
<p class="poetry">I will no longer think about them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:17</span> For look, I am ready to create </p>
<p class="poetry">new heavens and a new earth! </p>
<p class="poetry">The former ones will not be remembered;</p>
<p class="poetry">no one will think about them anymore. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:18</span> But be happy and rejoice forevermore</p>
<p class="poetry">over what I am about to create!</p>
<p class="poetry">For look, I am ready to create Jerusalem to be a source of joy, </p>
<p class="poetry">and her people to be a source of happiness. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:19</span> Jerusalem will bring me joy,</p>
<p class="poetry">and my people will bring me happiness. </p>
<p class="poetry">The sound of weeping or cries of sorrow</p>
<p class="poetry">will never be heard in her again. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:20</span> Never again will one of her infants live just a few days </p>
<p class="poetry">or an old man die before his time. </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, no one will die before the age of one hundred; </p>
<p class="poetry">anyone who fails to reach the age of one hundred will be considered cursed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:21</span> They will build houses and live in them;</p>
<p class="poetry">they will plant vineyards and eat their fruit. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:22</span> No longer will they build a house only to have another live in it, </p>
<p class="poetry">or plant a vineyard only to have another eat its fruit, </p>
<p class="poetry">for my people will live as long as trees, </p>
<p class="poetry">and my chosen ones will enjoy to the fullest what they have produced. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:23</span> They will not work in vain,</p>
<p class="poetry">or give birth to children that will experience disaster. </p>
<p class="poetry">For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will bless their children</p>
<p class="poetry">and their descendants. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:24</span> Before they even call out, I will respond;</p>
<p class="poetry">while they are still speaking, I will hear. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>65:25</span> A wolf and a lamb will graze together; </p>
<p class="poetry">a lion, like an ox, will eat straw, </p>
<p class="poetry">and a snake’s food will be dirt. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will no longer injure or destroy</p>
<p class="poetry">on my entire royal mountain,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file766.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file768.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
