<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Joshua 21</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file213.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file215.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Joshua<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 21</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Levitical Cities</p><p class="bodytext"><span>21:1</span> The tribal leaders of the Levites went before Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the Israelite tribal leaders <span>21:2</span> in Shiloh in the land of Canaan and said, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> told Moses to assign us cities in which to live along with the grazing areas for our cattle.” <span>21:3</span> So the Israelites assigned these cities and their grazing areas to the Levites from their own holdings, as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> had instructed.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:4</span> The first lot belonged to the Kohathite clans. The Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest were allotted thirteen cities from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. <span>21:5</span> The rest of Kohath’s descendants were allotted ten cities from the clans of the tribe of Ephraim, and from the tribe of Dan and the half-tribe of Manasseh. <span>21:6</span> Gershon’s descendants were allotted thirteen cities from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribes of Asher and Naphtali and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. <span>21:7</span> Merari’s descendants by their clans were allotted twelve cities from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. <span>21:8</span> So the Israelites assigned to the Levites by lot these cities and their grazing areas, as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> had instructed Moses. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:9</span> They assigned from the tribes of Judah and Simeon the cities listed below. <span>21:10</span> (They were assigned to the Kohathite clans of the Levites who were descendants of Aaron, for the first lot fell to them.) <span>21:11</span> They assigned them Kiriath Arba (Arba was the father of Anak), that is, Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, along with its surrounding grazing areas. <span>21:12</span> (Now the city’s fields and surrounding towns they had assigned to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his property.) <span>21:13</span> So to the descendants of Aaron the priest they assigned Hebron (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Libnah, <span>21:14</span> Jattir, Eshtemoa, <span>21:15</span> Holon, Debir, <span>21:16</span> Ain, Juttah, and Beth Shemesh, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of nine cities taken from these two tribes. <span>21:17</span> From the tribe of Benjamin they assigned Gibeon, Geba, <span>21:18</span> Anathoth, and Almon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. <span>21:19</span> The priests descended from Aaron received thirteen cities and their grazing areas. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:20</span> The rest of the Kohathite clans of the Levites were allotted cities from the tribe of Ephraim. <span>21:21</span> They assigned them Shechem (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer, <span>21:22</span> Kibzaim, and Beth Horon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. <span>21:23</span> From the tribe of Dan they assigned Eltekeh, Gibbethon, <span>21:24</span> Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. <span>21:25</span> From the half-tribe of Manasseh they assigned Taanach and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of two cities. <span>21:26</span> The rest of the Kohathite clans received ten cities and their grazing areas. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:27</span> They assigned to the Gershonite clans of the Levites the following cities: from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) and Beeshtarah, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of two cities; <span>21:28</span> from the tribe of Issachar: Kishon, Daberath, <span>21:29</span> Jarmuth, and En Gannim, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; <span>21:30</span> from the tribe of Asher: Mishal, Abdon, <span>21:31</span> Helkath, and Rehob, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; <span>21:32</span> from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Hammoth Dor, and Kartan, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of three cities. <span>21:33</span> The Gershonite clans received thirteen cities and their grazing areas. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:34</span> They assigned to the Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) the following cities: from the tribe of Zebulun: Jokneam, Kartah, <span>21:35</span> Dimnah, and Nahalal, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; <span>21:36</span>  from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer, Jahaz, <span>21:37</span> Kedemoth, and Mephaath, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; <span>21:38</span> from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Mahanaim, <span>21:39</span> Heshbon, and Jazer, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. <span>21:40</span> The Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) were allotted twelve cities. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:41</span> The Levites received within the land owned by the Israelites forty-eight cities in all and their grazing areas. <span>21:42</span> Each of these cities had grazing areas around it; they were alike in this regard. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>21:43</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> gave Israel all the land he had solemnly promised to their ancestors, and they conquered it and lived in it. <span>21:44</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> made them secure, in fulfillment of all he had solemnly promised their ancestors. None of their enemies could resist them. The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> handed all their enemies over to them. <span>21:45</span> Not one of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s faithful promises to the family of Israel was left unfulfilled; every one was realized. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file213.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file215.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
