<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 2 Samuel 7</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file283.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file285.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">2 Samuel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 7</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Establishes a Covenant with David</p><p class="bodytext"><span>7:1</span> The king settled into his palace, for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> gave him relief from all his enemies on all sides. <span>7:2</span> The king said to Nathan the prophet, “Look! I am living in a palace made from cedar, while the ark of God sits in the middle of a tent.” <span>7:3</span> Nathan replied to the king, “You should go and do whatever you have in mind, for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is with you.” <span>7:4</span> That night the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to Nathan, <span>7:5</span> “Go, tell my servant David, ‘This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said: Do you really intend to build a house for me to live in? <span>7:6</span> I have not lived in a house from the time I brought the Israelites up from Egypt to the present day. Instead, I was traveling with them and living in a tent. <span>7:7</span> Wherever I moved among all the Israelites, I did not say to any of their leaders whom I appointed to care for my people Israel, “Why have you not built me a house made from cedar?”’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>7:8</span> “So now, say this to my servant David, ‘This is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has said: I took you from the pasture and from your work as a shepherd to make you leader of my people Israel. <span>7:9</span> I was with you wherever you went, and I defeated all your enemies before you. Now I will make you as famous as the great men of the earth. <span>7:10</span> I will establish a place for my people Israel and settle them there; they will live there and not be disturbed anymore. Violent men will not oppress them again, as they did in the beginning<sup class="calibre9"/> <span>7:11</span> and during the time when I appointed judges to lead my people Israel. Instead, I will give you relief from all your enemies. The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> declares to you that he himself will build a dynastic house for you. <span>7:12</span> When the time comes for you to die, I will raise up your descendant, one of your own sons, to succeed you, and I will establish his kingdom. <span>7:13</span> He will build a house for my name, and I will make his dynasty permanent. <span>7:14</span> I will become his father and he will become my son. When he sins, I will correct him with the rod of men and with wounds inflicted by human beings. <span>7:15</span> But my loyal love will not be removed from him as I removed it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. <span>7:16</span> Your house and your kingdom will stand before me permanently; your dynasty will be permanent.’” <span>7:17</span> Nathan told David all these words that were revealed to him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Offers a Prayer to God</p><p class="bodytext"><span>7:18</span> King David went in, sat before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and said, “Who am I, O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and what is my family, that you should have brought me to this point? <span>7:19</span> And you didn’t stop there, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God! You have also spoken about the future of your servant’s family. Is this your usual way of dealing with men, O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>? <span>7:20</span> What more can David say to you? You have given your servant special recognition, O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>! <span>7:21</span> For the sake of your promise and according to your purpose you have done this great thing in order to reveal it to your servant. <span>7:22</span> Therefore you are great, O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, for there is none like you. There is no God besides you! What we have heard is true. <span>7:23</span> Who is like your people, Israel, a unique nation on the earth? Their God went to claim a nation for himself and to make a name for himself! You did great and awesome acts for your land, before your people whom you delivered for yourself from the Egyptian empire and its gods. <span>7:24</span> You made Israel your very own people for all time. You, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, became their God. <span>7:25</span> So now, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God, make this promise you have made about your servant and his family a permanent reality. Do as you promised, <span>7:26</span> so you may gain lasting fame, as people say, ‘The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies is God over Israel!’ The dynasty of your servant David will be established before you, <span>7:27</span> for you, O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, have told your servant, ‘I will build you a dynastic house.’ That is why your servant has had the courage to pray this prayer to you. <span>7:28</span> Now, O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, you are the true God. May your words prove to be true! You have made this good promise to your servant. <span>7:29</span> Now be willing to bless your servant’s dynasty so that it may stand permanently before you, for you, O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have spoken. By your blessing may your servant’s dynasty be blessed from now on into the future!” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file283.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file285.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
