<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) John 10</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1049.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1051.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">John<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 10</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus as the Good Shepherd</p><p class="bodytext"><span>10:1</span> “I tell you the solemn truth, the one who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in some other way, is a thief and a robber. <span>10:2</span> The one who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. <span>10:3</span> The doorkeeper opens the door for him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. <span>10:4</span> When he has brought all his own sheep out, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice. <span>10:5</span> They will never follow a stranger, but will run away from him, because they do not recognize the stranger’s voice.” <span>10:6</span> Jesus told them this parable, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:7</span> So Jesus said again, “I tell you the solemn truth, I am the door for the sheep. <span>10:8</span> All who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. <span>10:9</span> I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved, and will come in and go out, and find pasture. <span>10:10</span> The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come so that they may have life, and may have it abundantly. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:11</span> “I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. <span>10:12</span> The hired hand, who is not a shepherd and does not own sheep, sees the wolf coming and abandons the sheep and runs away. So the wolf attacks the sheep and scatters them. <span>10:13</span> Because he is a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep, he runs away. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:14</span> “I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me— <span>10:15</span> just as the Father knows me and I know the Father—and I lay down my life for the sheep. <span>10:16</span> I have other sheep that do not come from this sheepfold. I must bring them too, and they will listen to my voice, so that there will be one flock and one shepherd. <span>10:17</span> This is why the Father loves me —because I lay down my life, so that I may take it back again. <span>10:18</span> No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down of my own free will. I have the authority to lay it down, and I have the authority to take it back again. This commandment I received from my Father.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:19</span> Another sharp division took place among the Jewish people because of these words. <span>10:20</span> Many of them were saying, “He is possessed by a demon and has lost his mind! Why do you listen to him?” <span>10:21</span> Others said, “These are not the words of someone possessed by a demon. A demon cannot cause the blind to see, can it?” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus at the Feast of Dedication</p><p class="bodytext"><span>10:22</span> Then came the feast of the Dedication in Jerusalem. <span>10:23</span> It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple area in Solomon’s Portico. <span>10:24</span> The Jewish leaders surrounded him and asked, “How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.” <span>10:25</span> Jesus replied, “I told you and you do not believe. The deeds I do in my Father’s name testify about me. <span>10:26</span> But you refuse to believe because you are not my sheep. <span>10:27</span> My sheep listen to my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. <span>10:28</span> I give them eternal life, and they will never perish; no one will snatch them from my hand. <span>10:29</span> My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from my Father’s hand. <span>10:30</span> The Father and I are one.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:31</span> The Jewish leaders picked up rocks again to stone him to death. <span>10:32</span> Jesus said to them, “I have shown you many good deeds from the Father. For which one of them are you going to stone me?” <span>10:33</span> The Jewish leaders replied, “We are not going to stone you for a good deed but for blasphemy, because you, a man, are claiming to be God.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:34</span> Jesus answered, “Is it not written in your law, ‘<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">I said, you are gods</i></b>’? <span>10:35</span> If those people to whom the word of God came were called ‘gods’ (and the scripture cannot be broken), <span>10:36</span> do you say about the one whom the Father set apart and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’? <span>10:37</span> If I do not perform the deeds of my Father, do not believe me. <span>10:38</span> But if I do them, even if you do not believe me, believe the deeds, so that you may come to know and understand that I am in the Father and the Father is in me.” <span>10:39</span> Then they attempted again to seize him, but he escaped their clutches. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:40</span> Jesus went back across the Jordan River again to the place where John had been baptizing at an earlier time, and he stayed there. <span>10:41</span> Many came to him and began to say, “John performed no miraculous sign, but everything John said about this man was true!” <span>10:42</span> And many believed in Jesus there. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1049.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1051.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
