<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 19</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file720.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file722.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 19</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Will Judge Egypt</p><p class="poetry"><span>19:1</span> This is an oracle about Egypt:</p>
<p class="poetry">Look, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> rides on a swift-moving cloud</p>
<p class="poetry">and approaches Egypt.</p>
<p class="poetry">The idols of Egypt tremble before him;</p>
<p class="poetry">the Egyptians lose their courage. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:2</span> “I will provoke civil strife in Egypt: </p>
<p class="poetry">brothers will fight with one another,</p>
<p class="poetry">as will neighbors,</p>
<p class="poetry">cities, and kingdoms. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:3</span> The Egyptians will panic, </p>
<p class="poetry">and I will confuse their strategy. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will seek guidance from the idols and from the spirits of the dead,</p>
<p class="poetry">from the pits used to conjure up underworld spirits, and from the magicians. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:4</span> I will hand Egypt over to a harsh master;</p>
<p class="poetry">a powerful king will rule over them,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:5</span> The water of the sea will be dried up,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the river will dry up and be empty. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:6</span> The canals will stink; </p>
<p class="poetry">the streams of Egypt will trickle and then dry up;</p>
<p class="poetry">the bulrushes and reeds will decay, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:7</span> along with the plants by the mouth of the river. </p>
<p class="poetry">All the cultivated land near the river</p>
<p class="poetry">will turn to dust and be blown away. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:8</span> The fishermen will mourn and lament;</p>
<p class="poetry">all those who cast a fishhook into the river,</p>
<p class="poetry">and those who spread out a net on the water’s surface will grieve. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:9</span> Those who make clothes from combed flax will be embarrassed;</p>
<p class="poetry">those who weave will turn pale. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:10</span> Those who make cloth will be demoralized; </p>
<p class="poetry">all the hired workers will be depressed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:11</span> The officials of Zoan are nothing but fools; </p>
<p class="poetry">Pharaoh’s wise advisers give stupid advice.</p>
<p class="poetry">How dare you say to Pharaoh,</p>
<p class="poetry">“I am one of the sages,</p>
<p class="poetry">one well-versed in the writings of the ancient kings?” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:12</span> But where, oh where, are your wise men? </p>
<p class="poetry">Let them tell you, let them find out</p>
<p class="poetry">what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies has planned for Egypt. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:13</span> The officials of Zoan are fools,</p>
<p class="poetry">the officials of Memphis are misled;</p>
<p class="poetry">the rulers of her tribes lead Egypt astray. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:14</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has made them undiscerning; </p>
<p class="poetry">they lead Egypt astray in all she does,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that she is like a drunk sliding around in his own vomit. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>19:15</span> Egypt will not be able to do a thing,</p>
<p class="poetry">head or tail, shoots or stalk. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>19:16</span> At that time the Egyptians will be like women. They will tremble and fear because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies brandishes his fist against them. <span>19:17</span> The land of Judah will humiliate Egypt. Everyone who hears about Judah will be afraid because of what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies is planning to do to them. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>19:18</span> At that time five cities in the land of Egypt will speak the language of Canaan and swear allegiance to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. One will be called the City of the Sun. <span>19:19</span> At that time there will be an altar for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> in the middle of the land of Egypt, as well as a sacred pillar dedicated to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> at its border. <span>19:20</span> It will become a visual reminder in the land of Egypt of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. When they cry out to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> because of oppressors, he will send them a deliverer and defender who will rescue them. <span>19:21</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will reveal himself to the Egyptians, and they will acknowledge the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s authority at that time. They will present sacrifices and offerings; they will make vows to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and fulfill them. <span>19:22</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will strike Egypt, striking and then healing them. They will turn to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and he will listen to their prayers and heal them.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>19:23</span> At that time there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria. The Assyrians will visit Egypt, and the Egyptians will visit Assyria. The Egyptians and Assyrians will worship together. <span>19:24</span> At that time Israel will be the third member of the group, along with Egypt and Assyria, and will be a recipient of blessing in the earth. <span>19:25</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies will pronounce a blessing over the earth, saying, “Blessed be my people, Egypt, and the work of my hands, Assyria, and my special possession, Israel!” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file720.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file722.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
