<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Romans 9</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1099.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1101.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Romans<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 9</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Israel’s Rejection Considered</p><p class="bodytext"><span>9:1</span>  I am telling the truth in Christ (I am not lying!), for my conscience assures me in the Holy Spirit— <span>9:2</span> I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. <span>9:3</span> For I could wish that I myself were accursed—cut off from Christ—for the sake of my people, my fellow countrymen, <span>9:4</span> who are Israelites. To them belong the adoption as sons, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the temple worship, and the promises. <span>9:5</span> To them belong the patriarchs, and from them, by human descent, came the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever! Amen. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:6</span> It is not as though the word of God had failed. For not all those who are descended from Israel are truly Israel, <span>9:7</span> nor are all the children Abraham’s true descendants; rather “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">through Isaac will your descendants be counted</i></b>.” <span>9:8</span> This means it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God; rather, the children of promise are counted as descendants. <span>9:9</span> For this is what the promise declared: “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">About a year from now</i></b> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">I will return and Sarah will have a son</i></b>.” <span>9:10</span> Not only that, but when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our ancestor Isaac— <span>9:11</span> even before they were born or had done anything good or bad (so that God’s purpose in election would stand, not by works but by his calling) — <span>9:12</span>  it was said to her, “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">The older will serve the younger</i></b>,” <span>9:13</span> just as it is written: “<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated</b></i>.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:14</span> What shall we say then? Is there injustice with God? Absolutely not! <span>9:15</span> For he says to Moses: “<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion</b></i>.” <span>9:16</span> So then, it does not depend on human desire or exertion, but on God who shows mercy. <span>9:17</span> For the scripture says to Pharaoh: “<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may demonstrate my power in you, and that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth</b></i>.” <span>9:18</span> So then, God has mercy on whom he chooses to have mercy, and he hardens whom he chooses to harden. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:19</span> You will say to me then, “Why does he still find fault? For who has ever resisted his will?” <span>9:20</span> But who indeed are you—a mere human being —to talk back to God? <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">Does what is molded say to the molder</i></b>, “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">Why have you made me like this?</i></b>” <span>9:21</span> Has the potter no right to make from the same lump of clay one vessel for special use and another for ordinary use? <span>9:22</span> But what if God, willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience the objects of wrath prepared for destruction? <span>9:23</span> And what if he is willing to make known the wealth of his glory on the objects of mercy that he has prepared beforehand for glory— <span>9:24</span> even us, whom he has called, not only from the Jews but also from the Gentiles? <span>9:25</span> As he also says in Hosea:</p>
<p class="poetry">“<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">I will call those who were not my people</b></i>, ‘<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">My people</b></i>,’ <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">and I will call her who was unloved,</i></b> ‘<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">My beloved</b></i>.’” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>9:26</span> “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">And in the very place</i></b> <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">where it was said to them</b></i>, ‘<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">You are not my people</b></i>,’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">there they will be called</i></b> ‘<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">sons of the living God</b></i>.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>9:27</span> And Isaiah cries out on behalf of Israel, “<i class="calibre10">Though the number of the children</i> <i class="calibre10">of Israel are as the sand of the sea</i>, <i class="calibre10">only the remnant will be saved</i>, <span>9:28</span> <i class="calibre10">for</i> <i class="calibre10">the Lord will execute his sentence on the earth completely and quickly</i>.” <span>9:29</span> Just as Isaiah predicted, </p>
<p class="poetry">“If the Lord of Heaven’s Armies had not left us descendants, </p>
<p class="poetry">we would have become like Sodom, </p>
<p class="poetry">and we would have resembled Gomorrah.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Israel’s Rejection Culpable </p><p class="bodytext"><span>9:30</span> What shall we say then?—that the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness obtained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith, <span>9:31</span> but Israel even though pursuing a law of righteousness did not attain it. <span>9:32</span> Why not? Because they pursued it not by faith but (as if it were possible) by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone, <span>9:33</span> just as it is written, </p>
<p class="poetry">“<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">Look, I am laying in Zion a stone that will cause people to stumble</b></i></p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">and a rock that will make them fall,</i></b> </p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">yet the one who believes in him will not be put to shame</i>.</b>” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1099.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1101.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
