<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Philippians 1</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1153.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1155.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Philippians<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 1</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Salutation</p><p class="bodytext"><span>1:1</span> From Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons. <span>1:2</span> Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ! </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Prayer for the Church</p><p class="bodytext"><span>1:3</span> I thank my God every time I remember you. <span>1:4</span> I always pray with joy in my every prayer for all of you <span>1:5</span> because of your participation in the gospel from the first day until now. <span>1:6</span> For I am sure of this very thing, that the one who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. <span>1:7</span> For it is right for me to think this about all of you, because I have you in my heart, since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel all of you became partners in God’s grace together with me. <span>1:8</span> For God is my witness that I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus. <span>1:9</span> And I pray this, that your love may abound even more and more in knowledge and every kind of insight <span>1:10</span> so that you can decide what is best, and thus be sincere and blameless for the day of Christ, <span>1:11</span> filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle"> Ministry as a Prisoner</p><p class="bodytext"><span>1:12</span> I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that my situation has actually turned out to advance the gospel: <span>1:13</span> The whole imperial guard and everyone else knows that I am in prison for the sake of Christ, <span>1:14</span> and most of the brothers and sisters, having confidence in the Lord because of my imprisonment, now more than ever dare to speak the word fearlessly. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>1:15</span> Some, to be sure, are preaching Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. <span>1:16</span> The latter do so from love because they know that I am placed here for the defense of the gospel. <span>1:17</span> The former proclaim Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, because they think they can cause trouble for me in my imprisonment. <span>1:18</span> What is the result? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is being proclaimed, and in this I rejoice.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Yes, and I will continue to rejoice, <span>1:19</span> for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. <span>1:20</span> My confident hope is that I will in no way be ashamed but that with complete boldness, even now as always, Christ will be exalted in my body, whether I live or die. <span>1:21</span> For to me, living is Christ and dying is gain. <span>1:22</span> Now if I am to go on living in the body, this will mean productive work for me, yet I don’t know which I prefer: <span>1:23</span> I feel torn between the two, because I have a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far, <span>1:24</span> but it is more vital for your sake that I remain in the body. <span>1:25</span> And since I am sure of this, I know that I will remain and continue with all of you for the sake of your progress and joy in the faith, <span>1:26</span> so that what you can be proud of may increase because of me in Christ Jesus, when I come back to you. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>1:27</span> Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ so that—whether I come and see you or whether I remain absent—I should hear that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind, by contending side by side for the faith of the gospel, <span>1:28</span> and by not being intimidated in any way by your opponents. This is a sign of their destruction, but of your salvation—a sign which is from God. <span>1:29</span> For it has been granted to you not only to believe in Christ but also to suffer for him, <span>1:30</span> since you are encountering the same conflict that you saw me face and now hear that I am facing. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1153.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1155.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
