<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Matthew 15</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file983.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file985.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Matthew<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 15</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Breaking Human Traditions</p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:1</span> Then Pharisees and experts in the law came from Jerusalem to Jesus and said, <span>15:2</span> “Why do your disciples disobey the tradition of the elders? For they don’t wash their hands when they eat.” <span>15:3</span> He answered them, “And why do you disobey the commandment of God because of your tradition? <span>15:4</span> For God said, ‘<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">Honor your father and mother</i></b>’ and ‘<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">Whoever insults his father or mother must be put to death</i></b>.’ <span>15:5</span> But you say, ‘If someone tells his father or mother, “Whatever help you would have received from me is given to God,” <span>15:6</span> he does not need to honor his father.’ You have nullified the word of God on account of your tradition. <span>15:7</span> Hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied correctly about you when he said, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>15:8</span> ‘<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">This people honors me with their lips,</i></b> </p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">but their heart</i></b> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">is far from me,</i></b> </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>15:9</span> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">and they worship me in vain,</i></b> </p>
<p class="poetry"><i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">teaching as doctrines the commandments of men</b></i>.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">True Defilement</p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:10</span> Then he called the crowd to him and said, “Listen and understand. <span>15:11</span> What defiles a person is not what goes into the mouth; it is what comes out of the mouth that defiles a person.” <span>15:12</span> Then the disciples came to him and said, “Do you know that when the Pharisees heard this saying they were offended?” <span>15:13</span> And he replied, “Every plant that my heavenly Father did not plant will be uprooted. <span>15:14</span> Leave them! They are blind guides. If someone who is blind leads another who is blind, both will fall into a pit.” <span>15:15</span> But Peter said to him, “Explain this parable to us.” <span>15:16</span> Jesus said, “Even after all this, are you still so foolish? <span>15:17</span> Don’t you understand that whatever goes into the mouth enters the stomach and then passes out into the sewer? <span>15:18</span> But the things that come out of the mouth come from the heart, and these things defile a person. <span>15:19</span> For out of the heart come evil ideas, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false testimony, slander. <span>15:20</span> These are the things that defile a person; it is not eating with unwashed hands that defiles a person.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Canaanite Woman’s Faith</p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:21</span> After going out from there, Jesus went to the region of Tyre and Sidon. <span>15:22</span> A Canaanite woman from that area came and cried out, “Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter is horribly demon-possessed!” <span>15:23</span> But he did not answer her a word. Then his disciples came and begged him, “Send her away, because she keeps on crying out after us.” <span>15:24</span> So he answered, “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.” <span>15:25</span> But she came and bowed down before him and said, “Lord, help me!” <span>15:26</span> “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs,” he said. <span>15:27</span> “Yes, Lord,” she replied, “but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table.” <span>15:28</span> Then Jesus answered her, “Woman, your faith is great! Let what you want be done for you.” And her daughter was healed from that hour. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Healing Many Others </p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:29</span> When he left there, Jesus went along the Sea of Galilee. Then he went up a mountain, where he sat down. <span>15:30</span> Then large crowds came to him bringing with them the lame, blind, crippled, mute, and many others. They laid them at his feet, and he healed them. <span>15:31</span> As a result, the crowd was amazed when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they praised the God of Israel. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Feeding of the Four Thousand</p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:32</span> Then Jesus called his disciples and said, “I have compassion on the crowd, because they have already been here with me three days and they have nothing to eat. I don’t want to send them away hungry since they may faint on the way.” <span>15:33</span> The disciples said to him, “Where can we get enough bread in this desolate place to satisfy so great a crowd?” <span>15:34</span> Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” They replied, “Seven—and a few small fish.” <span>15:35</span> After instructing the crowd to sit down on the ground, <span>15:36</span> he took the seven loaves and the fish, and after giving thanks, he broke them and began giving them to the disciples, who then gave them to the crowds. <span>15:37</span> They all ate and were satisfied, and they picked up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full. <span>15:38</span> Not counting children and women, there were 4,000 men who ate. <span>15:39</span> After sending away the crowd, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file983.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file985.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
