<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Malachi 3</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file966.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file968.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Malachi<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 3</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Resistance to the Lord through Self-deceit</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:17</span> You have wearied the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> with your words. But you say, “How have we wearied him?” Because you say, “Everyone who does evil is good in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s opinion, and he delights in them,” or, “Where is the God of justice?” <span>3:1</span> “I am about to send my messenger, who will clear the way before me. Indeed, the Lord you are seeking will suddenly come to his temple, and the messenger of the covenant, whom you long for, is certainly coming,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:2</span> Who can endure the day of his coming? Who can keep standing when he appears? For he will be like a refiner’s fire, like a launderer’s soap. <span>3:3</span> He will act like a refiner and purifier of silver and will cleanse the Levites and refine them like gold and silver. Then they will offer the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> a proper offering. <span>3:4</span> The offerings of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> as in former times and years past. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:5</span> “I will come to you in judgment. I will be quick to testify against those who practice divination; those who commit adultery; those who break promises; and those who exploit workers, widows, and orphans, who refuse to help the resident foreigner and in this way show they do not fear me,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Resistance to the Lord through Selfishness</p><p class="bodytext"><span>3:6</span> “Since, I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, do not go back on my promises, you, sons of Jacob, have not perished. <span>3:7</span> From the days of your ancestors you have ignored my commandments and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. “But you say, ‘How should we return?’ <span>3:8</span> Can a person rob God? You are indeed robbing me, but you say, ‘How are we robbing you?’ In tithes and contributions! <span>3:9</span> You are bound for judgment because you are robbing me—this whole nation is guilty. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:10</span> “Bring the entire tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my temple. Test me in this matter,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, “to see if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out blessing for you until there is no room for it all. <span>3:11</span> Then I will stop the plague from ruining your crops, and the vine will not lose its fruit before harvest,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. <span>3:12</span> “All nations will call you blessed, for you indeed will live in a delightful land,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Resistance to the Lord through Self-sufficiency</p><p class="bodytext"><span>3:13</span> “You have criticized me sharply,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, “but you ask, ‘How have we criticized you?’ <span>3:14</span> You have said, ‘It is useless to serve God. How have we been helped by keeping his requirements and going about like mourners before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies? <span>3:15</span> So now we consider the arrogant to be blessed; indeed, those who practice evil are successful. In fact, those who challenge God escape!’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>3:16</span> Then those who respected the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to one another, and the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> took notice. A scroll was prepared before him in which were recorded the names of those who respected the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and honored his name. <span>3:17</span> “They will belong to me,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, “in the day when I prepare my own special property. I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him. <span>3:18</span> Then once more you will see that I make a distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file966.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file968.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
