<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 2 Samuel 6</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file282.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file284.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">2 Samuel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 6</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Brings the Ark to Jerusalem</p><p class="bodytext"><span>6:1</span> David again assembled all the best men in Israel, 30,000 in number. <span>6:2</span> David and all the men who were with him traveled to Baalah in Judah to bring up from there the ark of God which is called by the name of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, who sits enthroned between the cherubim that are on it. <span>6:3</span> They loaded the ark of God on a new cart and carried it from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were guiding the new cart. <span>6:4</span> They brought it with the ark of God from the house of Abinadab on the hill. Ahio was walking in front of the ark, <span>6:5</span> while David and all Israel were energetically celebrating before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, singing and playing various stringed instruments, tambourines, rattles, and cymbals. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:6</span> When they arrived at the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah reached out and grabbed hold of the ark of God, because the oxen stumbled. <span>6:7</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> was so furious with Uzzah, he killed him on the spot for his negligence. He died right there beside the ark of God. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:8</span> David was angry because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> attacked Uzzah; so he called that place Perez Uzzah, which remains its name to this very day. <span>6:9</span> David was afraid of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> that day and said, “How will the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> ever come to me?” <span>6:10</span> So David was no longer willing to bring the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> to be with him in the City of David. David left it in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. <span>6:11</span> The ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite for three months. The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> blessed Obed-Edom and all his family. <span>6:12</span> King David was told, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has blessed the family of Obed-Edom and everything he owns because of the ark of God.” So David went and joyfully brought the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the City of David. <span>6:13</span> Those who carried the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> took six steps and then David sacrificed an ox and a fatling calf. <span>6:14</span> Now David, wearing a linen ephod, was dancing with all his strength before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>6:15</span> David and all Israel were bringing up the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, shouting and blowing trumpets. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:16</span> As the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> entered the City of David, Saul’s daughter Michal looked out the window. When she saw King David leaping and dancing before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, she despised him. <span>6:17</span> They brought the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and put it in its place in the middle of the tent that David had pitched for it. Then David offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>6:18</span> When David finished offering the burnt sacrifices and peace offerings, he pronounced a blessing over the people in the name of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. <span>6:19</span> He then handed out to each member of the entire assembly of Israel, both men and women, a portion of bread, a date cake, and a raisin cake. Then all the people went home. <span>6:20</span> When David went home to pronounce a blessing on his own house, Michal, Saul’s daughter, came out to meet him. She said, “How the king of Israel has distinguished himself this day! He has exposed himself today before his servants’ slave girls the way a vulgar fool might do!”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>6:21</span> David replied to Michal, “It was before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>! I was celebrating before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, who chose me over your father and his entire family and appointed me as leader over the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s people Israel. <span>6:22</span> I am willing to shame and humiliate myself even more than this. But with the slave girls whom you mentioned, let me be distinguished.” <span>6:23</span> Now Michal, Saul’s daughter, had no children to the day of her death. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file282.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file284.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
