<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 1 Chronicles 23</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file373.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file375.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">1 Chronicles<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 23</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Organizes the Levites</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:1</span> When David was old and approaching the end of his life, he made his son Solomon king over Israel. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:2</span> David assembled all the leaders of Israel, along with the priests and the Levites. <span>23:3</span> The Levites who were thirty years old and up were counted; there were 38,000 men. <span>23:4</span> David said, “Of these, 24,000 are to direct the work of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple; 6,000 are to be officials and judges; <span>23:5</span> 4,000 are to be gatekeepers; and 4,000 are to praise the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> with the instruments I supplied for worship.” <span>23:6</span> David divided them into groups corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:7</span> The Gershonites included Ladan and Shimei. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:8</span> The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the oldest, Zetham, and Joel—three in all.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:9</span> The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran—three in all.</p>
<p class="bodytext">These were the leaders of the family of Ladan. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:10</span> The sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah. These were Shimei’s sons—four in all. <span>23:11</span> Jahath was the oldest and Zizah the second oldest. Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, so they were considered one family with one responsibility. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:12</span> The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel—four in all.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:13</span> The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Aaron and his descendants were chosen on a permanent basis to consecrate the most holy items, to offer sacrifices before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, to serve him, and to praise his name. <span>23:14</span> The descendants of Moses the man of God were considered Levites. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:15</span> The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:16</span> The son of Gershom: Shebuel the oldest. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:17</span> The son of Eliezer was Rehabiah, the oldest. Eliezer had no other sons, but Rehabiah had many descendants. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:18</span> The son of Izhar: Shelomith the oldest. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:19</span> The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the oldest, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:20</span> The sons of Uzziel: Micah the oldest, and Isshiah the second. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:21</span> The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:22</span> Eleazar died without having sons; he had only daughters. The sons of Kish, their cousins, married them. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:23</span> The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth—three in all.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:24</span> These were the descendants of Levi according to their families, that is, the leaders of families as counted and individually listed who carried out assigned tasks in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple and were twenty years old and up. <span>23:25</span> For David said, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of Israel has given his people rest and has permanently settled in Jerusalem. <span>23:26</span> So the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the items used in its service.” <span>23:27</span> According to David’s final instructions, the Levites twenty years old or older were counted. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:28</span> Their job was to help Aaron’s descendants in the service of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple. They were to take care of the courtyards, the rooms, ceremonial purification of all holy items, and other jobs related to the service of God’s temple. <span>23:29</span> They also took care of the bread that is displayed, the flour for offerings, the unleavened wafers, the round cakes, the mixing, and all the measuring. <span>23:30</span> They also stood in a designated place every morning and offered thanks and praise to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. They also did this in the evening <span>23:31</span> and whenever burnt sacrifices were offered to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> on the Sabbath and at new moon festivals and assemblies. A designated number were to serve before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> regularly in accordance with regulations. <span>23:32</span> They were in charge of the meeting tent and the Holy Place, and helped their relatives, the descendants of Aaron, in the service of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file373.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file375.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
