<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Deuteronomy 17</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file174.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file176.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Deuteronomy<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 17</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>17:1</span> You must not sacrifice to him a bull or sheep that has a blemish or any other defect, because that is considered offensive to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God. <span>17:2</span> Suppose a man or woman is discovered among you in one of your villages that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God is giving you who sins before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God and breaks his covenant <span>17:3</span> by serving other gods and worshiping them—the sun, moon, or any other heavenly bodies that I have not permitted you to worship. <span>17:4</span> When it is reported to you and you hear about it, you must investigate carefully. If it is indeed true that such a disgraceful thing is being done in Israel, <span>17:5</span> you must bring to your city gates that man or woman who has done this wicked thing—that very man or woman—and you must stone that person to death. <span>17:6</span> At the testimony of two or three witnesses the person must be executed. They cannot be put to death on the testimony of only one witness. <span>17:7</span> The witnesses must be first to begin the execution, and then all the people are to join in afterward. In this way you will purge the evil from among you.</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Appeal to a Higher Court</p><p class="bodytext"><span>17:8</span> If a matter is too difficult for you to judge—bloodshed, legal claim, or assault —matters of controversy in your villages —you must leave there and go up to the place the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God chooses. <span>17:9</span> You will go to the Levitical priests and the judge in office in those days and seek a solution; they will render a verdict. <span>17:10</span> You must then do as they have determined at that place the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> chooses. Be careful to do just as you are taught. <span>17:11</span> You must do what you are instructed, and the verdict they pronounce to you, without fail. Do not deviate right or left from what they tell you. <span>17:12</span> The person who pays no attention to the priest currently serving the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God there, or to the judge—that person must die, so that you may purge evil from Israel. <span>17:13</span> Then all the people will hear and be afraid, and not be so presumptuous again. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Provision for Kingship</p><p class="bodytext"><span>17:14</span> When you come to the land the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God is giving you and take it over and live in it and then say, “I will select a king like all the nations surrounding me,” <span>17:15</span> you must select without fail a king whom the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God chooses. From among your fellow citizens you must appoint a king—you may not designate a foreigner who is not one of your fellow Israelites. <span>17:16</span> Moreover, he must not accumulate horses for himself or allow the people to return to Egypt to do so, for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said you must never again return that way. <span>17:17</span> Furthermore, he must not marry many wives lest his affections turn aside, and he must not accumulate much silver and gold. <span>17:18</span> When he sits on his royal throne he must make a copy of this law on a scroll given to him by the Levitical priests. <span>17:19</span> It must be with him constantly, and he must read it as long as he lives, so that he may learn to revere the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> his God and observe all the words of this law and these statutes and carry them out. <span>17:20</span> Then he will not exalt himself above his fellow citizens or turn from the commandments to the right or left, and he and his descendants will enjoy many years ruling over his kingdom in Israel. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file174.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file176.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
