<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Deuteronomy 11</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file168.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file170.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Deuteronomy<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 11</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Reiteration of the Call to Obedience</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:1</span> You must love the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God and do what he requires; keep his statutes, ordinances, and commandments at all times. <span>11:2</span> Bear in mind today that I am not speaking to your children who have not personally experienced the judgments of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God, which revealed his greatness, strength, and power. <span>11:3</span> They did not see the awesome deeds he performed in the midst of Egypt against Pharaoh king of Egypt and his whole land, <span>11:4</span> or what he did to the army of Egypt, including their horses and chariots, when he made the waters of the Red Sea overwhelm them while they were pursuing you and he annihilated them. <span>11:5</span> They did not see what he did to you in the wilderness before you reached this place, <span>11:6</span> or what he did to Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab the Reubenite, when the earth opened its mouth in the middle of the Israelite camp and swallowed them, their families, their tents, and all the property they brought with them. <span>11:7</span> I am speaking to you because you are the ones who saw with your own eyes all the great deeds of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Abundance of the Land of Promise</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:8</span> Now pay attention to all the commandments I am giving you today, so that you may be strong enough to enter and possess the land where you are headed, <span>11:9</span> and that you may enjoy long life in the land the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> promised to give to your ancestors and their descendants, a land flowing with milk and honey. <span>11:10</span> For the land where you are headed is not like the land of Egypt from which you came, a land where you planted seed and which you irrigated by hand like a vegetable garden. <span>11:11</span> Instead, the land you are crossing the Jordan to occupy is one of hills and valleys, a land that drinks in water from the rains, <span>11:12</span> a land the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God looks after. He is constantly attentive to it from the beginning to the end of the year. <span>11:13</span> Now, if you pay close attention to my commandments that I am giving you today and love the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God and serve him with all your mind and being, <span>11:14</span> then he promises, “I will send rain for your land in its season, the autumn and the spring rains, so that you may gather in your grain, new wine, and olive oil. <span>11:15</span> I will provide pasture for your livestock and you will eat your fill.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Exhortation to Instruction and Obedience</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:16</span> Make sure you do not turn away to serve and worship other gods! <span>11:17</span> Then the anger of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will erupt against you, and he will close up the sky so that it does not rain. The land will not yield its produce, and you will soon be removed from the good land that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is about to give you. <span>11:18</span> Fix these words of mine into your mind and being, tie them as a reminder on your hands, and let them be symbols on your forehead. <span>11:19</span> Teach them to your children and speak of them as you sit in your house, as you walk along the road, as you lie down, and as you get up. <span>11:20</span> Inscribe them on the doorframes of your houses and on your gates <span>11:21</span> so that your days and those of your descendants may be extended in the land that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> promised to give to your ancestors, like the days of heaven itself. <span>11:22</span> For if you carefully observe all of these commandments I am giving you and love the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God, live according to his standards, and remain loyal to him, <span>11:23</span> then he will drive out all these nations ahead of you, and you will dispossess nations greater and stronger than you. <span>11:24</span> Every place you set your foot will be yours; your border will extend from the desert to Lebanon and from the River (that is, the Euphrates) as far as the Mediterranean Sea. <span>11:25</span> Nobody will be able to resist you; the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God will spread the fear and terror of you over the whole land on which you walk, just as he promised you. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Anticipation of a Blessing and Cursing Ceremony</p><p class="bodytext"><span>11:26</span> Take note—I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse: <span>11:27</span> the blessing if you take to heart the commandments of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God that I am giving you today, <span>11:28</span> and the curse if you pay no attention to his commandments and turn from the way I am setting before you today to pursue other gods you have not known. <span>11:29</span> When the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God brings you into the land you are to possess, you must pronounce the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal. <span>11:30</span> Are they not across the Jordan River, toward the west, in the land of the Canaanites who live in the rift valley opposite Gilgal near the oak of Moreh? <span>11:31</span> For you are about to cross the Jordan to possess the land the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God is giving you, and you will possess and inhabit it. <span>11:32</span> Be certain to keep all the statutes and ordinances that I am presenting to you today. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file168.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file170.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
