<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 4</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file772.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file774.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 4</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>4:1</span> “If you, Israel, want to come back,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">“if you want to come back to me, </p>
<p class="poetry">you must get those disgusting idols out of my sight</p>
<p class="poetry">and must no longer go astray. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:2</span> You must be truthful, honest, and upright</p>
<p class="poetry">when you take an oath saying, ‘As surely as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> lives!’ </p>
<p class="poetry">If you do, the nations will pray to be as blessed by him as you are</p>
<p class="poetry">and will make him the object of their boasting.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:3</span> Yes, this is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said </p>
<p class="poetry">to the people of Judah and Jerusalem: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Break up your unplowed ground, do not cast seeds among thorns. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:4</span> Commit yourselves to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>;</p>
<p class="poetry">dedicate your hearts to me </p>
<p class="poetry">people of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="poetry">Otherwise, my anger will blaze up like a flaming fire against you</p>
<p class="poetry">that no one will be able to extinguish.</p>
<p class="poetry">That will happen because of the evil you have done.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Warning of Coming Judgment</p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:5</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Announce this in Judah and proclaim it in Jerusalem: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Sound the trumpet throughout the land!’</p>
<p class="poetry">Shout out loudly,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Gather together! Let us flee into the fortified cities!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:6</span> Raise a signal flag that tells people to go to Zion. </p>
<p class="poetry">Run for safety! Do not delay!</p>
<p class="poetry">For I am about to bring disaster out of the north.</p>
<p class="poetry">It will bring great destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:7</span> Like a lion that has come up from its lair </p>
<p class="poetry">the one who destroys nations has set out from his home base. </p>
<p class="poetry">He is coming out to lay your land waste.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your cities will become ruins and lie uninhabited. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:8</span> So put on sackcloth!</p>
<p class="poetry">Mourn and wail, saying,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘The fierce anger of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span></p>
<p class="poetry">has not turned away from us!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:9</span> When this happens,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">“the king and his officials will lose their courage.</p>
<p class="poetry">The priests will be struck with horror,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the prophets will be speechless in astonishment.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>4:10</span> In response to all this I said, “Ah, Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, you have surely allowed the people of Judah and Jerusalem to be deceived by those who say, ‘You will be safe!’ But in fact a sword is already at our throats.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:11</span> At that time the people of Judah and Jerusalem will be told,</p>
<p class="poetry">“A scorching wind will sweep down</p>
<p class="poetry">from the hilltops in the wilderness on my dear people. </p>
<p class="poetry">It will not be a gentle breeze</p>
<p class="poetry">for winnowing the grain and blowing away the chaff. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:12</span> No, a wind too strong for that will come at my bidding.</p>
<p class="poetry">Yes, even now I, myself, am calling down judgment on them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:13</span> Look! The enemy is approaching like gathering clouds. </p>
<p class="poetry">The roar of his chariots is like that of a whirlwind. </p>
<p class="poetry">His horses move more swiftly than eagles.”</p>
<p class="poetry">I cry out, “We are doomed, for we will be destroyed!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:14</span> O people of Jerusalem, purify your hearts from evil </p>
<p class="poetry">so that you may yet be delivered.</p>
<p class="poetry">How long will you continue to harbor up</p>
<p class="poetry">wicked schemes within you?</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:15</span> For messengers are coming, heralding disaster,</p>
<p class="poetry">from the city of Dan and from the hills of Ephraim. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:16</span> They are saying, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Announce to the surrounding nations, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘The enemy is coming!’ </p>
<p class="poetry">Proclaim this message to Jerusalem:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Those who besiege cities are coming from a distant land.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are ready to raise the battle cry against the towns in Judah.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:17</span> They will surround Jerusalem </p>
<p class="poetry">like men guarding a field </p>
<p class="poetry">because they have rebelled against me,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:18</span> “The way you have lived and the things you have done </p>
<p class="poetry">will bring this on you.</p>
<p class="poetry">This is the punishment you deserve, and it will be painful indeed. </p>
<p class="poetry">The pain will be so bad it will pierce your heart.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>4:19</span> I said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Oh, the feeling in the pit of my stomach! </p>
<p class="poetry">I writhe in anguish.</p>
<p class="poetry">Oh, the pain in my heart! </p>
<p class="poetry">My heart pounds within me.</p>
<p class="poetry">I cannot keep silent.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I hear the sound of the trumpet; </p>
<p class="poetry">the sound of the battle cry pierces my soul! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:20</span> I see one destruction after another taking place,</p>
<p class="poetry">so that the whole land lies in ruins.</p>
<p class="poetry">I see our tents suddenly destroyed,</p>
<p class="poetry">their curtains torn down in a mere instant. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:21</span> How long must I see the enemy’s battle flags</p>
<p class="poetry">and hear the military signals of their bugles?” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>4:22</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> answered, </p>
<p class="poetry">“This will happen because my people are foolish.</p>
<p class="poetry">They do not know me.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are like children who have no sense. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have no understanding.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are skilled at doing evil.</p>
<p class="poetry">They do not know how to do good.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>4:23</span> I looked at the land and saw that it was an empty wasteland. </p>
<p class="poetry">I looked up at the sky, and its light had vanished. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:24</span> I looked at the mountains and saw that they were shaking.</p>
<p class="poetry">All the hills were swaying back and forth! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:25</span> I looked and saw that there were no more people </p>
<p class="poetry">and that all the birds in the sky had flown away.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:26</span> I looked and saw that the fruitful land had become a desert</p>
<p class="poetry">and that all the cities had been laid in ruins.</p>
<p class="poetry">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> had brought this all about</p>
<p class="poetry">because of his blazing anger. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:27</span> All this will happen because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“The whole land will be desolate;</p>
<p class="poetry">however, I will not completely destroy it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:28</span> Because of this the land will mourn</p>
<p class="poetry">and the sky above will grow black. </p>
<p class="poetry">For I have made my purpose known, </p>
<p class="poetry">and I will not relent or turn back from carrying it out.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:29</span> At the sound of the approaching horsemen and archers</p>
<p class="poetry">the people of every town will flee.</p>
<p class="poetry">Some of them will hide in the thickets.</p>
<p class="poetry">Others will climb up among the rocks.</p>
<p class="poetry">All the cities will be deserted.</p>
<p class="poetry">No one will remain in them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:30</span> And you, Zion, city doomed to destruction, </p>
<p class="poetry">you accomplish nothing by wearing a beautiful dress, </p>
<p class="poetry">decking yourself out in jewels of gold,</p>
<p class="poetry">and putting on eye shadow! </p>
<p class="poetry">You are making yourself beautiful for nothing.</p>
<p class="poetry">Your lovers spurn you.</p>
<p class="poetry">They want to kill you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:31</span> In fact, I hear a cry like that of a woman in labor,</p>
<p class="poetry">a cry of anguish like that of a woman giving birth to her first baby.</p>
<p class="poetry">It is the cry of Daughter Zion gasping for breath,</p>
<p class="poetry">reaching out for help, saying, “I am done in! </p>
<p class="poetry">My life is ebbing away before these murderers!” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file772.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file774.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
