<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 23</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file791.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file793.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 23</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">New Leaders over a Regathered Remnant</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, “The leaders of my people are sure to be judged. They were supposed to watch over my people like shepherds watch over their sheep. But they are causing my people to be destroyed and scattered.” <span>23:2</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of Israel has this to say about the leaders who are ruling over his people: “You have caused my people to be dispersed and driven into exile. You have not taken care of them. So I will punish you for the evil that you have done. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! <span>23:3</span> Then I myself will regather those of my people who are still alive from all the countries where I have driven them. I will bring them back to their homeland. They will greatly increase in number. <span>23:4</span> I will install rulers over them who will care for them. Then they will no longer need to fear or be terrified. None of them will turn up missing. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, promise it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:5</span> “I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, promise that a new time will certainly come </p>
<p class="poetry">when I will raise up for them a righteous branch, a descendant of David.</p>
<p class="poetry">He will rule over them with wisdom and understanding </p>
<p class="poetry">and will do what is just and right in the land. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:6</span> Under his rule Judah will enjoy safety </p>
<p class="poetry">and Israel will live in security. </p>
<p class="poetry">This is the name he will go by:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has provided us with justice.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:7</span> “So I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, say: ‘A new time will certainly come. People now affirm their oaths with, “I swear as surely as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> lives who delivered the people of Israel out of Egypt.” <span>23:8</span> But at that time they will affirm them with, “I swear as surely as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> lives who delivered the descendants of the former nation of Israel from the land of the north and from all the other lands where he had banished them.” At that time they will live in their own land.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Oracles Against the False Prophets </p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:9</span> Here is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says concerning the false prophets: </p>
<p class="poetry">My heart and my mind are deeply disturbed.</p>
<p class="poetry">I tremble all over. </p>
<p class="poetry">I am like a drunk person,</p>
<p class="poetry">like a person who has had too much wine, </p>
<p class="poetry">because of the way the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span></p>
<p class="poetry">and his holy word are being mistreated. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:10</span> For the land is full of people unfaithful to him. </p>
<p class="poetry">They live wicked lives and they misuse their power. </p>
<p class="poetry">So the land is dried up because it is under his curse. </p>
<p class="poetry">The pastures in the wilderness are withered. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:11</span> Moreover, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Both the prophets and priests are godless.</p>
<p class="poetry">I have even found them doing evil in my temple. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:12</span> So the paths they follow will be dark and slippery.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will stumble and fall headlong.</p>
<p class="poetry">For I will bring disaster on them.</p>
<p class="poetry">A day of reckoning is coming for them.” </p>
<p class="poetry">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> affirms it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:13</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, “I saw the prophets of Samaria </p>
<p class="poetry">doing something that was disgusting. </p>
<p class="poetry">They prophesied in the name of the god Baal</p>
<p class="poetry">and led my people Israel astray. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:14</span> But I see the prophets of Jerusalem </p>
<p class="poetry">doing something just as shocking.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are unfaithful to me </p>
<p class="poetry">and continually prophesy lies. </p>
<p class="poetry">So they give encouragement to people who are doing evil,</p>
<p class="poetry">with the result that they do not stop their evildoing. </p>
<p class="poetry">I consider all of them as bad as the people of Sodom,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the citizens of Jerusalem as bad as the people of Gomorrah. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:15</span> So then I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, </p>
<p class="poetry">have something to say concerning the prophets of Jerusalem: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘I will make these prophets eat the bitter food of suffering </p>
<p class="poetry">and drink the poison water of judgment. </p>
<p class="poetry">For the prophets of Jerusalem are the reason </p>
<p class="poetry">that ungodliness has spread throughout the land.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:16</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says to the people of Jerusalem: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Do not listen to what</p>
<p class="poetry">those prophets are saying to you.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are filling you with false hopes.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are reporting visions of their own imaginations,</p>
<p class="poetry">not something the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has given them to say. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:17</span> They continually say to those who reject what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Things will go well for you!’ </p>
<p class="poetry">They say to all those who follow the stubborn inclinations of their own hearts,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Nothing bad will happen to you!’</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:18</span> Yet which of them has ever stood in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s inner circle </p>
<p class="poetry">so they could see and hear what he has to say? </p>
<p class="poetry">Which of them have ever paid attention or listened to what he has said? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:19</span> But just watch! The wrath of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span></p>
<p class="poetry">will come like a storm! </p>
<p class="poetry">Like a raging storm it will rage down </p>
<p class="poetry">on the heads of those who are wicked. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:20</span> The anger of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will not turn back</p>
<p class="poetry">until he has fully carried out his intended purposes. </p>
<p class="poetry">In future days </p>
<p class="poetry">you people will come to understand this clearly. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:21</span> I did not send those prophets,</p>
<p class="poetry">yet they were in a hurry to give their message. </p>
<p class="poetry">I did not tell them anything,</p>
<p class="poetry">yet they prophesied anyway.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:22</span> But if they had stood in my inner circle, </p>
<p class="poetry">they would have proclaimed my message to my people.</p>
<p class="poetry">They would have caused my people to turn from their wicked ways</p>
<p class="poetry">and stop doing the evil things they are doing. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:23</span> Do you people think that I am some local deity</p>
<p class="poetry">and not the transcendent God?” the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> asks. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:24</span> “Do you really think anyone can hide himself</p>
<p class="poetry">where I cannot see him?” the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> asks. </p>
<p class="poetry">“Do you not know that I am everywhere?” </p>
<p class="poetry">the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> asks. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:25</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, “I have heard what those prophets who are prophesying lies in my name are saying. They are saying, ‘I have had a dream! I have had a dream!’ <span>23:26</span> Those prophets are just prophesying lies. They are prophesying the delusions of their own minds. <span>23:27</span> How long will they go on plotting to make my people forget who I am through the dreams they tell one another? That is just as bad as what their ancestors did when they forgot who I am by worshiping the god Baal. <span>23:28</span> Let the prophet who has had a dream go ahead and tell his dream. Let the person who has received my message report that message faithfully. What is like straw cannot compare to what is like grain! I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! <span>23:29</span> My message is like a fire that purges dross. It is like a hammer that breaks a rock in pieces. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, so affirm it! <span>23:30</span> So I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm that I am opposed to those prophets who steal messages from one another that they claim are from me. <span>23:31</span> I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm that I am opposed to those prophets who are using their own tongues to declare, ‘The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> declares.’ <span>23:32</span> I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm that I am opposed to those prophets who dream up lies and report them. They are misleading my people with their reckless lies. I did not send them. I did not commission them. They are not helping these people at all. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it!” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:33</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to me, “Jeremiah, when one of these people, or a prophet, or a priest asks you, ‘What burdensome message do you have from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>?’ Tell them, ‘You are the burden, and I will cast you away. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! <span>23:34</span> I will punish any prophet, priest, or other person who says “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message is burdensome.” I will punish both that person and his whole family.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:35</span> So I, Jeremiah, tell you, “Each of you people should say to his friend or his relative, ‘How did the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> answer? Or what did the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> say?’ <span>23:36</span> You must no longer say that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message is burdensome. For what is ‘burdensome’ really pertains to what a person himself says. You are misrepresenting the words of our God, the living God, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. <span>23:37</span> Each of you should merely ask the prophet, ‘What answer did the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> give you? Or what did the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> say?’ <span>23:38</span> But just suppose you continue to say, ‘The message of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is burdensome.’ Here is what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says will happen: ‘I sent word to you that you must not say, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message is burdensome.” But you used the words, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message is burdensome,” anyway. <span>23:39</span> So I will carry you far off and throw you away. I will send both you and the city I gave to you and to your ancestors out of my sight. <span>23:40</span> I will bring on you lasting shame and lasting disgrace that will never be forgotten!’” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file791.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file793.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
