<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 1 Samuel 12</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file256.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file258.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">1 Samuel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 12</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:1</span> Samuel said to all Israel, “I have done everything you requested. I have given you a king. <span>12:2</span> Now look! This king walks before you. As for me, I am old and gray, and my sons are here with you. I have walked before you from the time of my youth till the present day. <span>12:3</span> Here I am. Bring a charge against me before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and before his chosen king. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I wronged? Whom have I oppressed? From whose hand have I taken a bribe so that I would overlook something? Tell me, and I will return it to you!”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:4</span> They replied, “You have not wronged us or oppressed us. You have not taken anything from the hand of anyone.” <span>12:5</span> He said to them, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is witness against you, and his chosen king is witness this day, that you have not found any reason to accuse me.” They said, “He is witness!” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:6</span> Samuel said to the people, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is the one who chose Moses and Aaron and who brought your ancestors up from the land of Egypt. <span>12:7</span> Now take your positions, so I may confront you before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> regarding all the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s just actions toward you and your ancestors. <span>12:8</span> When Jacob entered Egypt, your ancestors cried out to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> sent Moses and Aaron, and they led your ancestors out of Egypt and settled them in this place. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:9</span> “But they forgot the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> their God, so he gave them into the hand of Sisera, the general in command of Hazor’s army, and into the hands of the Philistines and the king of Moab, and they fought against them. <span>12:10</span> Then they cried out to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and admitted, ‘We have sinned, for we have forsaken the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and have served the Baals and the images of Ashtoreth. Now deliver us from the hands of our enemies so that we may serve you.’ <span>12:11</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> sent Jerub Baal, Barak, Jephthah, and Samuel, and he delivered you from the hands of the enemies all around you, and you were able to live securely. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:12</span> “When you saw that King Nahash of the Ammonites was advancing against you, you said to me, ‘No! A king will rule over us’—even though the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God is your king. <span>12:13</span> Now look! Here is the king you have chosen—the one that you asked for! Look, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has given you a king. <span>12:14</span> If you fear the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, serving him and obeying him and not rebelling against what he says, and if both you and the king who rules over you follow the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God, all will be well. <span>12:15</span> But if you don’t obey the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and rebel against what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, the hand of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will be against both you and your king. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:16</span> “So now, take your positions and watch this great thing that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is about to do in your sight. <span>12:17</span> Is this not the time of the wheat harvest? I will call on the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> so that he makes it thunder and rain. Realize and see what a great sin you have committed before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> by asking for a king for yourselves.”</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:18</span> So Samuel called to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> made it thunder and rain that day. All the people were very afraid of both the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and Samuel. <span>12:19</span> All the people said to Samuel, “Pray to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God on behalf of us—your servants—so we won’t die, for we have added to all our sins by asking for a king.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>12:20</span> Then Samuel said to the people, “Don’t be afraid. You have indeed sinned. However, don’t turn aside from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. Serve the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> with all your heart. <span>12:21</span> You should not turn aside after empty things that can’t profit and can’t deliver, since they are empty. <span>12:22</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will not abandon his people because he wants to uphold his great reputation. The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> was pleased to make you his own people. <span>12:23</span> As far as I am concerned, far be it from me to sin against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> by ceasing to pray for you! I will instruct you in the way that is good and upright. <span>12:24</span> However, fear the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and serve him faithfully with all your heart. Just look at the great things he has done for you! <span>12:25</span> But if you continue to do evil, both you and your king will be swept away.”</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file256.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file258.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
