<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ezekiel 27</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file854.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file856.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ezekiel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 27</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Lament for Tyre</p><p class="bodytext"><span>27:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>27:2</span> “You, son of man, sing a lament for Tyre. <span>27:3</span> Say to Tyre, who sits at the entrance of the sea, merchant to the peoples on many coasts, ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“‘O Tyre, you have said, “I am perfectly beautiful.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:4</span>  Your borders are in the heart of the seas;</p>
<p class="poetry">your builders have perfected your beauty. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:5</span> They crafted all your planks out of fir trees from Senir; </p>
<p class="poetry">they took a cedar from Lebanon to make your mast. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:6</span> They made your oars from oaks of Bashan;</p>
<p class="poetry">they made your deck with cypress wood from the coasts of Cyprus. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:7</span> Fine linen from Egypt, woven with patterns, was used for your sail</p>
<p class="poetry">to serve as your banner;</p>
<p class="poetry">blue and purple from the coastlands of Elishah were used for your deck’s awning. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:8</span> The leaders of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers;</p>
<p class="poetry">your skilled men, O Tyre, were your captains. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:9</span> The elders of Gebal and her skilled men were within you, mending cracks; </p>
<p class="poetry">all the ships of the sea and their mariners were within you to trade for your merchandise. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:10</span> Men of Persia, Lud, and Put were in your army, men of war.</p>
<p class="poetry">They hung shield and helmet on you; they gave you your splendor. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:11</span> The Arvadites joined your army on your walls all around,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the Gammadites were in your towers. </p>
<p class="poetry">They hung their quivers on your walls all around; </p>
<p class="poetry">they perfected your beauty. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>27:12</span> “‘Tarshish was your trade partner because of your abundant wealth; they exchanged silver, iron, tin, and lead for your products. <span>27:13</span> Javan, Tubal, and Meshech were your clients; they exchanged slaves and bronze items for your merchandise. <span>27:14</span> Beth Togarmah exchanged horses, chargers, and mules for your products. <span>27:15</span> The Dedanites were your clients. Many coastlands were your customers; they paid you with ivory tusks and ebony. <span>27:16</span> Edom was your trade partner because of the abundance of your goods; they exchanged turquoise, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and rubies for your products. <span>27:17</span> Judah and the land of Israel were your clients; they traded wheat from Minnith, millet, honey, olive oil, and balm for your merchandise. <span>27:18</span> Damascus was your trade partner because of the abundance of your goods and of all your wealth: wine from Helbon, white wool from Zahar, <span>27:19</span> and casks of wine from Izal they exchanged for your products. Wrought iron, cassia, and sweet cane were among your merchandise. <span>27:20</span> Dedan was your client in saddlecloths for riding. <span>27:21</span> Arabia and all the princes of Kedar were your trade partners; for lambs, rams, and goats they traded with you. <span>27:22</span> The merchants of Sheba and Raamah engaged in trade with you; they traded the best kinds of spices along with precious stones and gold for your products. <span>27:23</span> Haran, Kanneh, Eden, merchants from Sheba, Asshur, and Kilmad were your clients. <span>27:24</span> They traded with you choice garments, purple clothes and embroidered work, and multicolored carpets bound and reinforced with cords; these were among your merchandise. <span>27:25</span> The ships of Tarshish were the transports for your merchandise. </p>
<p class="poetry">“‘So you were filled and weighed down in the heart of the seas. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:26</span> Your rowers have brought you into surging waters.</p>
<p class="poetry">The east wind has wrecked you in the heart of the seas. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:27</span> Your wealth, products, and merchandise, your sailors and captains, </p>
<p class="poetry">your ship’s carpenters, your merchants, </p>
<p class="poetry">and all your fighting men within you, </p>
<p class="poetry">along with all your crew who are in you,</p>
<p class="poetry">will fall into the heart of the seas on the day of your downfall. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:28</span> At the sound of your captains’ cries the waves will surge; </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:29</span> They will descend from their ships—all who handle the oar, </p>
<p class="poetry">the sailors and all the sea captains—they will stand on the land. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:30</span> They will lament loudly over you and cry bitterly. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will throw dust on their heads and roll in the ashes; </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:31</span> they will tear out their hair because of you and put on sackcloth, </p>
<p class="poetry">and they will weep bitterly over you with intense mourning. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:32</span> As they wail they will lament over you, chanting:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Who was like Tyre, like a tower in the midst of the sea?” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:33</span> When your products went out from the seas,</p>
<p class="poetry">you satisfied many peoples;</p>
<p class="poetry">with the abundance of your wealth and merchandise</p>
<p class="poetry">you enriched the kings of the earth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:34</span> Now you are wrecked by the seas, in the depths of the waters;</p>
<p class="poetry">your merchandise and all your company have sunk along with you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:35</span> All the inhabitants of the coastlands are shocked at you,</p>
<p class="poetry">and their kings are horribly afraid—their faces are troubled.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>27:36</span> The traders among the peoples hiss at you;</p>
<p class="poetry">you have become a horror, and will be no more.’” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file854.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file856.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
