<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 25</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file793.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file795.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 25</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Seventy Years of Servitude for Failure to Give Heed</p><p class="bodytext"><span>25:1</span> In the fourth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah. (That was the same as the first year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylon.) <span>25:2</span> So the prophet Jeremiah spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the people who were living in Jerusalem. <span>25:3</span> “For the last twenty-three years, from the thirteenth year that Josiah son of Amon was ruling in Judah until now, the <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s messages have come to me and I have told them to you over and over again. But you would not listen. <span>25:4</span> Over and over again the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has sent his servants the prophets to you. But you have not listened or paid attention. <span>25:5</span> He said through them, ‘Each of you must turn from your wicked ways and stop doing the evil things you are doing. If you do, I will allow you to continue to live here in the land that I gave to you and your ancestors as a lasting possession. <span>25:6</span> Do not pay allegiance to other gods and worship and serve them. Do not make me angry by the things that you do. Then I will not cause you any harm.’ <span>25:7</span> So, now the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, ‘You have not listened to me. But you have made me angry by the things that you have done. Thus you have brought harm on yourselves.’</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:8</span> “Therefore, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says, ‘You have not listened to what I said. <span>25:9</span> So I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm that I will send for all the peoples of the north and my servant, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. I will bring them against this land and its inhabitants and all the nations that surround it. I will utterly destroy the land, its inhabitants, and all the surrounding nations and make them everlasting ruins. I will make them objects of horror and hissing scorn. <span>25:10</span> I will put an end to the sounds of joy and gladness and the glad celebration of brides and grooms in these lands. I will put an end to the sound of people grinding meal. I will put an end to lamps shining in their houses. <span>25:11</span> This whole area will become a desolate wasteland. These nations will be subject to the king of Babylon for seventy years.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:12</span> “‘But when the seventy years are over, I will punish the king of Babylon and his nation for their sins. I will make the land of Babylon an everlasting ruin. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it! <span>25:13</span> I will bring on that land everything that I said I would. I will bring on it everything that is written in this book. I will bring on it everything that Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations. <span>25:14</span> For many nations and great kings will make slaves of the king of Babylon and his nation too. I will repay them for all they have done.’” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Judah and the Nations Will Experience God’s Wrath</p><p class="bodytext"><span>25:15</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel, spoke to me in a vision: “Take this cup from my hand. It is filled with the wine of my wrath. Take it and make the nations to whom I send you drink it. <span>25:16</span> When they have drunk it, they will stagger to and fro and act insane. For I will send wars sweeping through them.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:17</span> So I took the cup from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s hand. I made all the nations to whom he sent me drink the wine of his wrath. <span>25:18</span> I made Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, its kings and its officials drink it. I did it so Judah would become a ruin. I did it so Judah, its kings, and its officials would become an object of horror and of hissing scorn, an example used in curses. Such is already becoming the case! <span>25:19</span> I made all these other people drink it: Pharaoh, king of Egypt; his attendants, his officials, his people, <span>25:20</span> the foreigners living in Egypt; all the kings of the land of Uz; all the kings of the land of the Philistines, the people of Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, the people who had been left alive from Ashdod; <span>25:21</span> all the people of Edom, Moab, Ammon; <span>25:22</span> all the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon; all the kings of the coastlands along the sea; <span>25:23</span> the people of Dedan, Tema, Buz, all the desert people who cut their hair short at the temples; <span>25:24</span> all the kings of Arabia who live in the desert; <span>25:25</span> all the kings of Zimri; all the kings of Elam; all the kings of Media; <span>25:26</span> all the kings of the north, whether near or far from one another; and all the other kingdoms that are on the face of the earth. After all of them have drunk the wine of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s wrath, the king of Babylon must drink it.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:27</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to me, “Tell them that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘Drink this cup until you get drunk and vomit. Drink until you fall down and can’t get up. For I will send wars sweeping through you.’ <span>25:28</span> If they refuse to take the cup from your hand and drink it, tell them that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says, ‘You most certainly must drink it! <span>25:29</span> For take note, I am already beginning to bring disaster on the city that I call my own. So how can you possibly avoid being punished? You will not go unpunished. For I am proclaiming war against all who live on the earth. I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, affirm it!’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:30</span> “Then, Jeremiah, make the following prophecy against them: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Like a lion about to attack, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will roar from the heights of heaven;</p>
<p class="poetry">from his holy dwelling on high he will roar loudly.</p>
<p class="poetry">He will roar mightily against his land. </p>
<p class="poetry">He will shout in triumph, like those stomping juice from the grapes, </p>
<p class="poetry">against all those who live on the earth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:31</span> The sounds of battle will resound to the ends of the earth.</p>
<p class="poetry">For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will bring charges against the nations. </p>
<p class="poetry">He will pass judgment on all humankind</p>
<p class="poetry">and will hand the wicked over to be killed in war.’ </p>
<p class="poetry">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> so affirms it! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:32</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Disaster will soon come on one nation after another. </p>
<p class="poetry">A mighty storm of military destruction is rising up</p>
<p class="poetry">from the distant parts of the earth.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:33</span> Those who have been killed by the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> at that time </p>
<p class="poetry">will be scattered from one end of the earth to the other. </p>
<p class="poetry">They will not be mourned over, gathered up, or buried. </p>
<p class="poetry">Their dead bodies will lie scattered over the ground like manure. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:34</span> Wail and cry out in anguish, you rulers!</p>
<p class="poetry">Roll in the dust, you who shepherd flocks of people! </p>
<p class="poetry">The time for you to be slaughtered has come.</p>
<p class="poetry">You will lie scattered and fallen like broken pieces of fine pottery. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:35</span> The leaders will not be able to run away and hide. </p>
<p class="poetry">The shepherds of the flocks will not be able to escape. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:36</span> Listen to the cries of anguish of the leaders.</p>
<p class="poetry">Listen to the wails of the shepherds of the flocks.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are wailing because the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span></p>
<p class="poetry">is about to destroy their lands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:37</span> Their peaceful dwelling places will be laid waste </p>
<p class="poetry">by the fierce anger of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>25:38</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is like a lion who has left his lair. </p>
<p class="poetry">So their lands will certainly be laid waste</p>
<p class="poetry">by the warfare of the oppressive nation </p>
<p class="poetry">and by the fierce anger of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.”</p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file793.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file795.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
