<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Numbers 23</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file143.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file145.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Numbers<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 23</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Balaam Blesses Israel</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:1</span>  Balaam said to Balak, “Build me seven altars here, and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams.” <span>23:2</span> So Balak did just as Balaam had said. Balak and Balaam then offered on each altar a bull and a ram. <span>23:3</span> Balaam said to Balak, “Station yourself by your burnt offering, and I will go off; perhaps the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will come to meet me, and whatever he reveals to me I will tell you.” Then he went to a deserted height. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:4</span> Then God met Balaam, who said to him, “I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered on each altar a bull and a ram.” <span>23:5</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> put a message in Balaam’s mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and speak what I tell you.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:6</span> So he returned to him, and he was still standing by his burnt offering, he and all the princes of Moab. <span>23:7</span> Then Balaam uttered his oracle, saying, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Balak, the king of Moab, brought me from Aram, </p>
<p class="poetry">out of the mountains of the east, saying, </p>
<p class="poetry">‘Come, pronounce a curse on Jacob for me; </p>
<p class="poetry">come, denounce Israel.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:8</span> How can I curse one whom God has not cursed, </p>
<p class="poetry">or how can I denounce one whom the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has not denounced? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:9</span> For from the top of the rocks I see them; </p>
<p class="poetry">from the hills I watch them. </p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, a nation that lives alone, </p>
<p class="poetry">and it will not be reckoned among the nations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:10</span> Who can count the dust of Jacob, </p>
<p class="poetry">or number the fourth part of Israel? </p>
<p class="poetry">Let me die the death of the upright, </p>
<p class="poetry">and let the end of my life be like theirs.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Balaam Relocates</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:11</span> Then Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I brought you to curse my enemies, but on the contrary you have only blessed them!” <span>23:12</span> Balaam replied, “Must I not be careful to speak what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has put in my mouth?” <span>23:13</span> Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place from which you can observe them. You will see only a part of them, but you will not see all of them. Curse them for me from there.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:14</span> So Balak brought Balaam to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, where he built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. <span>23:15</span> And Balaam said to Balak, “Station yourself here by your burnt offering, while I meet the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> there.” <span>23:16</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> met Balaam and put a message in his mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and speak what I tell you.” <span>23:17</span> When Balaam came to him, he was still standing by his burnt offering, along with the princes of Moab. And Balak said to him, “What has the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoken?” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Balaam Prophesies Again</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:18</span> Balaam uttered his oracle, and said,</p>
<p class="poetry">“Rise up, Balak, and hear;</p>
<p class="poetry">Listen to me, son of Zippor: </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:19</span> God is not a man, that he should lie,</p>
<p class="poetry">nor a human being, that he should change his mind.</p>
<p class="poetry">Has he said, and will he not do it?</p>
<p class="poetry">Or has he spoken, and will he not make it happen? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:20</span> Indeed, I have received a command to bless;</p>
<p class="poetry">he has blessed, and I cannot reverse it. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:21</span> He has not looked on iniquity in Jacob, </p>
<p class="poetry">nor has he seen trouble in Israel.</p>
<p class="poetry">The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> their God is with them;</p>
<p class="poetry">his acclamation as king is among them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:22</span> God brought them out of Egypt.</p>
<p class="poetry">They have, as it were, the strength of a wild bull. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:23</span> For there is no spell against Jacob,</p>
<p class="poetry">nor is there any divination against Israel.</p>
<p class="poetry">At this time it must be said of Jacob</p>
<p class="poetry">and of Israel, ‘Look at what God has done!’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>23:24</span> Indeed, the people will rise up like a lioness,</p>
<p class="poetry">and like a lion raises himself up;</p>
<p class="poetry">they will not lie down until they eat their prey,</p>
<p class="poetry">and drink the blood of the slain.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Balaam Relocates Yet Again</p><p class="bodytext"><span>23:25</span> Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all!” <span>23:26</span> But Balaam replied to Balak, “Did I not tell you, ‘All that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> speaks, I must do’?” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>23:27</span> Balak said to Balaam, “Come, please; I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God to let you curse them for me from there.” <span>23:28</span> So Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, that looks toward the wastelands. <span>23:29</span> Then Balaam said to Balak, “Build seven altars here for me, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams.” <span>23:30</span> So Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file143.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file145.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
