<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 10</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file778.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file780.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 10</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord, not Idols, is the Only Worthy Object of Worship</p><p class="bodytext"><span>10:1</span> You people of Israel, listen to what the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has to say to you.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:2</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Do not start following pagan religious practices. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not be in awe of signs that occur in the sky</p>
<p class="poetry">even though the nations hold them in awe. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:3</span> For the religion of these people is worthless.</p>
<p class="poetry">They cut down a tree in the forest,</p>
<p class="poetry">and a craftsman makes it into an idol with his tools. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:4</span> He decorates it with overlays of silver and gold.</p>
<p class="poetry">He uses hammer and nails to fasten it together</p>
<p class="poetry">so that it will not fall over. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:5</span> Such idols are like scarecrows in a cucumber field.</p>
<p class="poetry">They cannot talk.</p>
<p class="poetry">They must be carried </p>
<p class="poetry">because they cannot walk.</p>
<p class="poetry">Do not be afraid of them</p>
<p class="poetry">because they cannot hurt you.</p>
<p class="poetry">And they do not have any power to help you.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>10:6</span> I said, </p>
<p class="poetry">“There is no one like you, <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry">You are great,</p>
<p class="poetry">and you are renowned for your power. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:7</span> Everyone should revere you, O King of all nations, </p>
<p class="poetry">because you deserve to be revered. </p>
<p class="poetry">For there is no one like you</p>
<p class="poetry">among any of the wise people of the nations nor among any of their kings. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:8</span> The people of those nations are both stupid and foolish.</p>
<p class="poetry">Instruction from a wooden idol is worthless! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:9</span> Hammered-out silver is brought from Tarshish </p>
<p class="poetry">and gold is brought from Ufaz to cover those idols. </p>
<p class="poetry">They are the handiwork of carpenters and goldsmiths. </p>
<p class="poetry">They are clothed in blue and purple clothes. </p>
<p class="poetry">They are all made by skillful workers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:10</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is the only true God.</p>
<p class="poetry">He is the living God and the everlasting King.</p>
<p class="poetry">When he shows his anger the earth shakes.</p>
<p class="poetry">None of the nations can stand up to his fury. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:11</span> You people of Israel should tell those nations this:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘These gods did not make heaven and earth.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will disappear from the earth and from under the heavens.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:12</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is the one who by his power made the earth.</p>
<p class="poetry">He is the one who by his wisdom established the world.</p>
<p class="poetry">And by his understanding he spread out the skies. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:13</span> When his voice thunders, the heavenly ocean roars.</p>
<p class="poetry">He makes the clouds rise from the far-off horizons. </p>
<p class="poetry">He makes the lightning flash out in the midst of the rain.</p>
<p class="poetry">He unleashes the wind from the places where he stores it. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:14</span> All these idolaters will prove to be stupid and ignorant.</p>
<p class="poetry">Every goldsmith will be disgraced by the idol he made.</p>
<p class="poetry">For the image he forges is merely a sham. </p>
<p class="poetry">There is no breath in any of those idols. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:15</span> They are worthless, mere objects to be mocked. </p>
<p class="poetry">When the time comes to punish them, they will be destroyed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:16</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, who is the inheritance of Jacob’s descendants, is not like them.</p>
<p class="poetry">He is the one who created everything.</p>
<p class="poetry">And the people of Israel are those he claims as his own. </p>
<p class="poetry">His name is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jeremiah Laments for and Prays for the People Soon to be Judged</p><p class="poetry"><span>10:17</span> “Gather your belongings together and prepare to leave the land,</p>
<p class="poetry">you people of Jerusalem who are being besieged. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:18</span> For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, ‘I will now throw out</p>
<p class="poetry">those who live in this land.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will bring so much trouble on them</p>
<p class="poetry">that they will actually feel it.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:19</span> And I cried out, ‘We are doomed! </p>
<p class="poetry">Our wound is severe!’</p>
<p class="poetry">We once thought, ‘This is only an illness.</p>
<p class="poetry">And we will be able to bear it.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:20</span> But our tents have been destroyed.</p>
<p class="poetry">The ropes that held them in place have been ripped apart. </p>
<p class="poetry">Our children are gone and are not coming back. </p>
<p class="poetry">There is no survivor to put our tents back up,</p>
<p class="poetry">no one left to hang their tent curtains in place.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:21</span> For our leaders are stupid.</p>
<p class="poetry">They have not sought the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s advice. </p>
<p class="poetry">So they do not act wisely,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the people they are responsible for have all been scattered. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:22</span> Listen! News is coming even now. </p>
<p class="poetry">The rumble of a great army is heard approaching from a land in the north. </p>
<p class="poetry">It is coming to turn the towns of Judah into rubble,</p>
<p class="poetry">places where only jackals live. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:23</span> <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, we know that people do not control their own destiny. </p>
<p class="poetry">It is not in their power to determine what will happen to them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:24</span> Correct us, <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, but only in due measure. </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not punish us in anger or you will reduce us to nothing. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>10:25</span> Vent your anger on the nations that do not acknowledge you. </p>
<p class="poetry">Vent it on the peoples who do not worship you. </p>
<p class="poetry">For they have destroyed the people of Jacob. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have completely destroyed them </p>
<p class="poetry">and left their homeland in utter ruin.” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file778.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file780.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
