<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 1 Chronicles 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file352.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file354.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">1 Chronicles<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Israel’s Descendants</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:1</span> These were the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah; Issachar and Zebulun; </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:2</span> Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin; </p>
<p class="bodytext">Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Judah’s Descendants</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:3</span> The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him by Bathshua, a Canaanite woman. Er, Judah’s firstborn, displeased the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, so the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> killed him. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:4</span> Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:5</span> The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:6</span> The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Kalkol, Dara —five in all. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:7</span> The son of Carmi: Achan, who brought the disaster on Israel when he stole what was devoted to God. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:8</span> The son of Ethan: Azariah.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:9</span> The sons born to Hezron: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Ram’s Descendants</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:10</span> Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, the tribal chief of Judah. <span>2:11</span> Nahshon was the father of Salma, and Salma was the father of Boaz. <span>2:12</span> Boaz was the father of Obed, and Obed was the father of Jesse. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:13</span> Jesse was the father of Eliab, his firstborn; Abinadab was born second, Shimea third, <span>2:14</span> Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth, <span>2:15</span> Ozem sixth, and David seventh. <span>2:16</span> Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah’s three sons were Abshai, Joab, and Asahel. <span>2:17</span> Abigail bore Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Caleb’s Descendants</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:18</span> Caleb son of Hezron fathered sons by his wife Azubah (also known as Jerioth). Her sons were Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. <span>2:19</span> When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur. <span>2:20</span> Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri was the father of Bezalel. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:21</span> Later Hezron slept with the daughter of Makir, the father of Gilead. (He had married her when he was sixty years old.) She bore him Segub. <span>2:22</span> Segub was the father of Jair, who owned twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. <span>2:23</span> (Geshur and Aram captured the towns of Jair, along with Kenath and its sixty surrounding towns.) All these were descendants of Makir, the father of Gilead. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:24</span> After Hezron’s death, Caleb slept with Ephrath, his father Hezron’s widow, and she bore to him Ashhur the father of Tekoa. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jerahmeel’s Descendants</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:25</span> The sons of Jerahmeel, Hezron’s firstborn, were Ram, the firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. <span>2:26</span> Jerahmeel had another wife named Atarah; she was Onam’s mother. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:27</span> The sons of Ram, Jerahmeel’s firstborn, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:28</span> The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:29</span> Abishur’s wife was Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid. <span>2:30</span> The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. (Seled died without having sons.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:31</span> The son of Appaim: Ishi.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The son of Ishi: Sheshan.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:32</span> The sons of Jada, Shammai’s brother: Jether and Jonathan. (Jether died without having sons.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:33</span> The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza.</p>
<p class="bodytext">These were the descendants of Jerahmeel. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:34</span> Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. Sheshan had an Egyptian servant named Jarha. <span>2:35</span> Sheshan gave his daughter to his servant Jarha as a wife; she bore him Attai. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:36</span> Attai was the father of Nathan, and Nathan was the father of Zabad. <span>2:37</span> Zabad was the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal was the father of Obed. <span>2:38</span> Obed was the father of Jehu, and Jehu was the father of Azariah. <span>2:39</span> Azariah was the father of Helez, and Helez was the father of Eleasah. <span>2:40</span> Eleasah was the father of Sismai, and Sismai was the father of Shallum. <span>2:41</span> Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah was the father of Elishama. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">More of Caleb’s Descendants</p><p class="bodytext"><span>2:42</span> The sons of Caleb, Jerahmeel’s brother: His firstborn Mesha, the father of Ziph, and his second son Mareshah, the father of Hebron. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:43</span> The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:44</span> Shema was the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai. <span>2:45</span> Shammai’s son was Maon, who was the father of Beth Zur. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:46</span> Caleb’s concubine Ephah bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:47</span> The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:48</span> Caleb’s concubine Maacah bore Sheber and Tirhanah. <span>2:49</span> She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah and Sheva the father of Machbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Achsah. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:50</span> These were the descendants of Caleb.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrath: Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim, <span>2:51</span> Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph, the father of Beth Gader. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:52</span> The sons of Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim, were Haroeh, half the Manahathites, <span>2:53</span> the clans of Kiriath Jearim—the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. (The Zorathites and Eshtaolites descended from these groups.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:54</span> The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites, <span>2:55</span> and the clans of the scribes who lived in Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who descended from Hammath, the father of Beth Rechab. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file352.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file354.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
