<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Matthew 24</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file992.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file994.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Matthew<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 24</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Destruction of the Temple </p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:1</span> Now as Jesus was going out of the temple courts and walking away, his disciples came to show him the temple buildings. <span>24:2</span> And he said to them, “Do you see all these things? I tell you the truth, not one stone will be left on another. All will be torn down!” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Signs of the End of the Age </p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:3</span> As he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, his disciples came to him privately and said, “Tell us, when will these things happen? And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age?” <span>24:4</span> Jesus answered them, “Watch out that no one misleads you. <span>24:5</span> For many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am the Christ,’ and they will mislead many. <span>24:6</span> You will hear of wars and rumors of wars. Make sure that you are not alarmed, for this must happen, but the end is still to come. <span>24:7</span> For nation will rise up in arms against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. <span>24:8</span> All these things are the beginning of birth pains. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Persecution of Disciples</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:9</span> “Then they will hand you over to be persecuted and will kill you. You will be hated by all the nations because of my name. <span>24:10</span> Then many will be led into sin, and they will betray one another and hate one another. <span>24:11</span> And many false prophets will appear and deceive many, <span>24:12</span> and because lawlessness will increase so much, the love of many will grow cold. <span>24:13</span> But the person who endures to the end will be saved. <span>24:14</span> And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the whole inhabited earth as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Abomination of Desolation</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:15</span> “So when you see <i class="calibre10">the abomination of desolation</i> —spoken about by Daniel the prophet—standing in the holy place” (let the reader understand), <span>24:16</span> “then those in Judea must flee to the mountains. <span>24:17</span> The one on the roof must not come down to take anything out of his house, <span>24:18</span> and the one in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. <span>24:19</span> Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing their babies in those days! <span>24:20</span> Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath. <span>24:21</span> For then there will be great suffering unlike anything that has happened from the beginning of the world until now, or ever will happen. <span>24:22</span> And if those days had not been cut short, no one would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short. <span>24:23</span> Then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘There he is!’ do not believe him. <span>24:24</span> For false messiahs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. <span>24:25</span> Remember, I have told you ahead of time. <span>24:26</span> So then, if someone says to you, ‘Look, he is in the wilderness,’ do not go out, or ‘Look, he is in the inner rooms,’ do not believe him. <span>24:27</span> For just like the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so the coming of the Son of Man will be. <span>24:28</span> Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Arrival of the Son of Man </p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:29</span> “Immediately after the suffering of those days, <i class="calibre10">the</i> <i class="calibre10">sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of heaven will be shaken</i>. <span>24:30</span> Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn. They will see <i class="calibre10">the Son of Man arriving on the clouds of heaven</i> with power and great glory. <span>24:31</span> And he will send his angels with a loud trumpet blast, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Parable of the Fig Tree </p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:32</span> “Learn this parable from the fig tree: Whenever its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. <span>24:33</span> So also you, when you see all these things, know that he is near, right at the door. <span>24:34</span> I tell you the truth, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. <span>24:35</span> Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Be Ready!</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:36</span> “But as for that day and hour no one knows it—not even the angels in heaven —except the Father alone. <span>24:37</span> For just like the days of Noah were, so the coming of the Son of Man will be. <span>24:38</span> For in those days before the flood, people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day Noah entered the ark. <span>24:39</span> And they knew nothing until the flood came and took them all away. It will be the same at the coming of the Son of Man. <span>24:40</span> Then there will be two men in the field; one will be taken and one left. <span>24:41</span> There will be two women grinding grain with a mill; one will be taken and one left. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>24:42</span> “Therefore stay alert, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come. <span>24:43</span> But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have been alert and would not have let his house be broken into. <span>24:44</span> Therefore you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Faithful and Wise Slave</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:45</span> “Who then is the faithful and wise slave, whom the master has put in charge of his household, to give the other slaves their food at the proper time? <span>24:46</span> Blessed is that slave whom the master finds at work when he comes. <span>24:47</span> I tell you the truth, the master will put him in charge of all his possessions. <span>24:48</span> But if that evil slave should say to himself, ‘My master is staying away a long time,’ <span>24:49</span> and he begins to beat his fellow slaves and to eat and drink with drunkards, <span>24:50</span> then the master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not foresee, <span>24:51</span> and will cut him in two, and assign him a place with the hypocrites, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file992.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file994.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
