<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Mark 15</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1012.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1014.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Mark<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 15</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus Brought Before Pilate </p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:1</span> Early in the morning, after forming a plan, the chief priests with the elders and the experts in the law and the whole Sanhedrin tied Jesus up, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate. <span>15:2</span> So Pilate asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” He replied, “You say so.” <span>15:3</span> Then the chief priests began to accuse him repeatedly. <span>15:4</span> So Pilate asked him again, “Have you nothing to say? See how many charges they are bringing against you!” <span>15:5</span> But Jesus made no further reply, so that Pilate was amazed. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus and Barabbas </p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:6</span> During the feast it was customary to release one prisoner to the people, whomever they requested. <span>15:7</span> A man named Barabbas was imprisoned with rebels who had committed murder during an insurrection. <span>15:8</span> Then the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to release a prisoner for them, as was his custom. <span>15:9</span> So Pilate asked them, “Do you want me to release the king of the Jews for you?” <span>15:10</span> (For he knew that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy.) <span>15:11</span> But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release Barabbas instead. <span>15:12</span> So Pilate spoke to them again, “Then what do you want me to do with the one you call king of the Jews?” <span>15:13</span> They shouted back, “Crucify him!” <span>15:14</span> Pilate asked them, “Why? What has he done wrong?” But they shouted more insistently, “Crucify him!” <span>15:15</span> Because he wanted to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas for them. Then, after he had Jesus flogged, he handed him over to be crucified. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus is Mocked</p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:16</span> So the soldiers led him into the palace (that is, the governor’s residence) and called together the whole cohort. <span>15:17</span> They put a purple cloak on him and after braiding a crown of thorns, they put it on him. <span>15:18</span> They began to salute him: “Hail, king of the Jews!” <span>15:19</span> Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. Then they knelt down and paid homage to him. <span>15:20</span> When<sup class="calibre9"/> they had finished mocking him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him away to crucify him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Crucifixion</p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:21</span> The soldiers forced a passerby to carry his cross, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country (he was the father of Alexander and Rufus). <span>15:22</span> They brought Jesus to a place called Golgotha (which is translated, “Place of the Skull”). <span>15:23</span> They offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. <span>15:24</span> Then they crucified him and <i class="calibre10">divided</i> <i class="calibre10">his clothes, throwing dice</i> for them, to decide what each would take. <span>15:25</span> It was nine o’clock in the morning when they crucified him. <span>15:26</span> The inscription of the charge against him read, “The king of the Jews.” <span>15:27</span> And they crucified two outlaws with him, one on his right and one on his left. <span>15:29</span> Those who passed by defamed him, shaking their heads and saying, “Aha! You who can destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, <span>15:30</span> save yourself and come down from the cross!” <span>15:31</span> In the same way even the chief priests—together with the experts in the law —were mocking him among themselves: “He saved others, but he cannot save himself! <span>15:32</span> Let the Christ, the king of Israel, come down from the cross now, that we may see and believe!” Those who were crucified with him also spoke abusively to him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus’ Death </p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:33</span> Now when it was noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon. <span>15:34</span> Around three o’clock Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “<i class="calibre10">Eloi</i><i class="calibre10">, Eloi, lema sabachthani?</i>” which means, “<b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?</i></b>” <span>15:35</span> When some of the bystanders heard it they said, “Listen, he is calling for Elijah!” <span>15:36</span> Then someone ran, filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a stick, and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Leave him alone! Let’s see if Elijah will come to take him down!” <span>15:37</span> But Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. <span>15:38</span> And the temple curtain was torn in two, from top to bottom. <span>15:39</span> Now when the centurion, who stood in front of him, saw how he died, he said, “Truly this man was God’s Son!” <span>15:40</span> There were also women, watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome. <span>15:41</span> When he was in Galilee, they had followed him and given him support. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were there too.</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus’ Burial </p><p class="bodytext"><span>15:42</span> Now when evening had already come, since it was the day of preparation (that is, the day before the Sabbath), <span>15:43</span> Joseph of Arimathea, a highly regarded member of the council, who was himself looking forward to the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. <span>15:44</span> Pilate was surprised that he was already dead. He called the centurion and asked him if he had been dead for some time. <span>15:45</span> When Pilate was informed by the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. <span>15:46</span> After Joseph bought a linen cloth and took down the body, he wrapped it in the linen and placed it in a tomb cut out of the rock. Then he rolled a stone across the entrance of the tomb. <span>15:47</span> Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where the body was placed. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1012.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1014.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
