<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Hosea 2</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file891.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file893.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Hosea<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 2</h1>
<p class="bodytext"><span>2:1</span> Then you will call your brother, “My People” (Ammi)! You will call your sister, “Pity” (Ruhamah)!</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Idolatrous Israel Will Be Punished Like a Prostitute</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:2</span> “Plead earnestly with your mother </p>
<p class="poetry">(for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband), </p>
<p class="poetry">so that she might put an end to her adulterous lifestyle, </p>
<p class="poetry">and turn away from her sexually immoral behavior. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:3</span> Otherwise, I will strip her naked,</p>
<p class="poetry">and expose her like she was when she was born. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will turn her land into a wilderness </p>
<p class="poetry">and make her country a parched land, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that I might kill her with thirst. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:4</span> I will have no pity on her children, </p>
<p class="poetry">because they are children conceived in adultery. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:5</span> For their mother has committed adultery; </p>
<p class="poetry">she who conceived them has acted shamefully. </p>
<p class="poetry">For she said, “I will seek out my lovers; </p>
<p class="poetry">they are the ones who give me my bread and my water, </p>
<p class="poetry">my wool, my flax, my olive oil, and my wine. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord’s Discipline Will Bring Israel Back</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:6</span> “Therefore, I will soon fence her in with thorns; </p>
<p class="poetry">I will wall her in so that she cannot find her way. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:7</span> Then she will pursue her lovers, but she will not catch them; </p>
<p class="poetry">she will seek them, but she will not find them. </p>
<p class="poetry">Then she will say,</p>
<p class="poetry">‘I will go back to my husband, </p>
<p class="poetry">because I was better off then than I am now.’ </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Agricultural Fertility Withdrawn from Israel </p><p class="poetry"><span>2:8</span> “Yet until now she has refused to acknowledge that I was the one</p>
<p class="poetry">who gave her the grain, the new wine, and the olive oil; </p>
<p class="poetry">and that it was I who lavished on her the silver and gold—</p>
<p class="poetry">that they used in worshiping Baal! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:9</span> Therefore, I will take back my grain during the harvest time </p>
<p class="poetry">and my new wine when it ripens; </p>
<p class="poetry">I will take away my wool and my flax </p>
<p class="poetry">that I had provided in order to clothe her. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:10</span> Soon I will expose her lewd nakedness in front of her lovers, </p>
<p class="poetry">and no one will be able to rescue her from me! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:11</span> I will put an end to all her celebrations: </p>
<p class="poetry">her annual religious festivals, </p>
<p class="poetry">monthly new moon celebrations, </p>
<p class="poetry">and weekly Sabbath festivities—</p>
<p class="poetry">all her appointed festivals. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:12</span> I will destroy her vines and fig trees, </p>
<p class="poetry">about which she said, ‘These are my wages for prostitution </p>
<p class="poetry">that my lovers gave to me!’</p>
<p class="poetry">I will turn her cultivated vines and fig trees into an uncultivated thicket, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that wild animals will devour them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:13</span> I will punish her for the festival days</p>
<p class="poetry">when she burned incense to the Baal idols; </p>
<p class="poetry">she adorned herself with earrings and jewelry,</p>
<p class="poetry">and went after her lovers,</p>
<p class="poetry">but she forgot me!” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Future Repentance and Restoration of Israel</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:14</span> “However, in the future I will allure her; </p>
<p class="poetry">I will lead her back into the wilderness, </p>
<p class="poetry">and speak tenderly to her.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:15</span> From there I will give back her vineyards to her, </p>
<p class="poetry">and turn the ‘Valley of Trouble’ into an ‘Opportunity for Hope.’ </p>
<p class="poetry">There she will sing as she did when she was young, </p>
<p class="poetry">when she came up from the land of Egypt. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:16</span> At that time,” declares the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, </p>
<p class="poetry">“you will call, ‘My husband’; </p>
<p class="poetry">you will never again call me, ‘My master.’ </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:17</span> For I will remove the names of the Baal idols from your lips, </p>
<p class="poetry">so that you will never again utter their names! </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle"> New Covenant Relationship with Repentant Israel</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:18</span> “At that time I will make a covenant for them with the wild animals, </p>
<p class="poetry">the birds of the air, and the creatures that crawl on the ground. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will abolish the warrior’s bow and sword—</p>
<p class="poetry">that is, every weapon of warfare —from the land, </p>
<p class="poetry">and I will allow them to live securely. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:19</span> I will commit myself to you forever; </p>
<p class="poetry">I will commit myself to you in righteousness and justice, </p>
<p class="poetry">in steadfast love and tender compassion. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:20</span> I will commit myself to you in faithfulness; </p>
<p class="poetry">then you will acknowledge the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Agricultural Fertility Restored to the Repentant Nation</p><p class="poetry"><span>2:21</span> “At that time, I will willingly respond,” declares the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry">“I will respond to the sky, </p>
<p class="poetry">and the sky will respond to the ground; </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:22</span> then the ground will respond to the grain, the new wine, and the olive oil; </p>
<p class="poetry">and they will respond to ‘God Plants’ (Jezreel)! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>2:23</span> Then I will plant her as my own in the land. </p>
<p class="poetry">I will have pity on ‘No Pity’ (Lo-Ruhamah). </p>
<p class="poetry">I will say to ‘Not My People’ (Lo-Ammi), ‘You are my people!’ </p>
<p class="poetry">And he will say, ‘You are my God!’” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file891.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file893.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
