<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Jeremiah 50</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file818.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file820.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Jeremiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 50</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Judgment Against Babylon</p><p class="bodytext"><span>50:1</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke concerning Babylon and the land of Babylonia through the prophet Jeremiah. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:2</span> “Announce the news among the nations! Proclaim it!</p>
<p class="poetry">Signal for people to pay attention. </p>
<p class="poetry">Declare the news! Do not hide it! Say:</p>
<p class="poetry">‘Babylon will be captured.</p>
<p class="poetry">Bel will be put to shame.</p>
<p class="poetry">Marduk will be dismayed.</p>
<p class="poetry">Babylon’s idols will be put to shame;</p>
<p class="poetry">her disgusting images will be dismayed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:3</span> For a nation from the north will attack Babylon;</p>
<p class="poetry">it will lay her land waste.</p>
<p class="poetry">People and animals will flee out of it.</p>
<p class="poetry">No one will inhabit it.’</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:4</span> “When that time comes,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, </p>
<p class="poetry">“the people of Israel and Judah will return to the land together.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will come back with tears of repentance</p>
<p class="poetry">as they seek the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> their God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:5</span> They will ask the way to Zion;</p>
<p class="poetry">they will turn their faces toward it.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will come and bind themselves to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span></p>
<p class="poetry">in a lasting covenant that will never be forgotten. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:6</span> “My people have been lost sheep.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their shepherds have allowed them to go astray.</p>
<p class="poetry">They have wandered around in the mountains.</p>
<p class="poetry">They have roamed from one mountain and hill to another. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have forgotten their resting place. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:7</span> All who encountered them devoured them.</p>
<p class="poetry">Their enemies who did this said, ‘We are not liable for punishment!</p>
<p class="poetry">For those people have sinned against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, their true pasture. </p>
<p class="poetry">They have sinned against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> in whom their ancestors trusted.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:8</span> “People of Judah, get out of Babylon quickly!</p>
<p class="poetry">Leave the land of Babylonia! </p>
<p class="poetry">Be the first to depart. </p>
<p class="poetry">Be like the male goats that lead the herd. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:9</span> For I will rouse into action and bring against Babylon</p>
<p class="poetry">a host of mighty nations from the land of the north.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will set up their battle lines against her.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will come from the north and capture her. </p>
<p class="poetry">Their arrows will be like a skilled soldier </p>
<p class="poetry">who does not return from the battle empty-handed. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:10</span> Babylonia will be plundered.</p>
<p class="poetry">Those who plunder it will take all they want,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:11</span> “People of Babylonia, you plundered my people. </p>
<p class="poetry">That made you happy and glad.</p>
<p class="poetry">You frolic about like calves in a pasture. </p>
<p class="poetry">Your joyous sounds are like the neighs of a stallion. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:12</span> But Babylonia will be put to great shame.</p>
<p class="poetry">The land where you were born will be disgraced.</p>
<p class="poetry">Indeed, Babylonia will become the least important of all nations.</p>
<p class="poetry">It will become a dry and barren desert. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:13</span> After I vent my wrath on it, Babylon will be uninhabited. </p>
<p class="poetry">It will be totally desolate.</p>
<p class="poetry">All who pass by will be filled with horror and will hiss out their scorn </p>
<p class="poetry">because of all the disasters that have happened to it. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:14</span> “Take up your battle positions all around Babylon,</p>
<p class="poetry">all you soldiers who are armed with bows. </p>
<p class="poetry">Shoot all your arrows at her! Do not hold any back! </p>
<p class="poetry">For she has sinned against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:15</span> Shout the battle cry from all around the city.</p>
<p class="poetry">She will throw up her hands in surrender; </p>
<p class="poetry">her towers will fall.</p>
<p class="poetry">Her walls will be torn down.</p>
<p class="poetry">Because I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, am wreaking revenge, </p>
<p class="poetry">take out your vengeance on her!</p>
<p class="poetry">Do to her as she has done! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:16</span> Kill all the farmers who sow the seed in the land of Babylon;</p>
<p class="poetry">kill all those who wield the sickle at harvest time. </p>
<p class="poetry">Let all the foreigners return to their own people.</p>
<p class="poetry">Let them hurry back to their own lands </p>
<p class="poetry">to escape destruction by that enemy army. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:17</span> “The people of Israel are like scattered sheep</p>
<p class="poetry">that lions have chased away.</p>
<p class="poetry">First the king of Assyria devoured them. </p>
<p class="poetry">Now, last of all, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon has gnawed their bones. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:18</span> So I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, say: </p>
<p class="poetry">‘I will punish the king of Babylon and his land</p>
<p class="poetry">just as I punished the king of Assyria. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:19</span> But I will restore the flock of Israel to their own pasture.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will graze on Mount Carmel and the land of Bashan.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will eat until they are full </p>
<p class="poetry">on the hills of Ephraim and the land of Gilead. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:20</span> When that time comes,</p>
<p class="poetry">no guilt will be found in Israel.</p>
<p class="poetry">No sin will be found in Judah. </p>
<p class="poetry">For I will forgive those of them I have allowed to survive. </p>
<p class="poetry">I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, affirm it!’” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:21</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Attack the land of Merathaim</p>
<p class="poetry">and the people who live in Pekod. </p>
<p class="poetry">Pursue, kill, and completely destroy them! </p>
<p class="poetry">Do just as I have commanded you! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:22</span> The noise of battle can be heard in the land of Babylonia. </p>
<p class="poetry">There is the sound of great destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:23</span> Babylon hammered the whole world to pieces.</p>
<p class="poetry">But see how that ‘hammer’ has been broken and shattered! </p>
<p class="poetry">See what an object of horror </p>
<p class="poetry">Babylon has become among the nations! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:24</span> I set a trap for you, Babylon;</p>
<p class="poetry">you were caught before you knew it.</p>
<p class="poetry">You fought against me;</p>
<p class="poetry">so you were found and captured. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:25</span> I have opened up the place where my weapons are stored. </p>
<p class="poetry">I have brought out the weapons for carrying out my wrath. </p>
<p class="poetry">For I, the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies, </p>
<p class="poetry">have work to carry out in the land of Babylonia. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:26</span> Come from far away and attack Babylonia! </p>
<p class="poetry">Open up the places where she stores her grain.</p>
<p class="poetry">Pile her up in ruins. Destroy her completely! </p>
<p class="poetry">Do not leave anyone alive! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:27</span> Kill all her soldiers. </p>
<p class="poetry">Let them be slaughtered. </p>
<p class="poetry">They are doomed, for their day of reckoning has come,</p>
<p class="poetry">the time for them to be punished.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:28</span> Listen! Fugitives and refugees are coming from the land of Babylon.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are coming to Zion to declare there</p>
<p class="poetry">how the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God is getting revenge,</p>
<p class="poetry">getting revenge for what they have done to his temple. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:29</span> “Call for archers to come against Babylon!</p>
<p class="poetry">Summon against her all who draw the bow.</p>
<p class="poetry">Set up camp all around the city.</p>
<p class="poetry">Do not allow anyone to escape!</p>
<p class="poetry">Pay her back for what she has done.</p>
<p class="poetry">Do to her what she has done to others.</p>
<p class="poetry">For she has proudly defied me, </p>
<p class="poetry">the Holy One of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:30</span> So her young men will fall in her city squares.</p>
<p class="poetry">All her soldiers will be destroyed at that time,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:31</span> “Listen! I am opposed to you, you proud city,” </p>
<p class="poetry">says the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="poetry">“Indeed, your day of reckoning has come,</p>
<p class="poetry">the time when I will punish you. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:32</span> You will stumble and fall, you proud city;</p>
<p class="poetry">no one will help you get up.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will set fire to your towns;</p>
<p class="poetry">it will burn up everything that surrounds you.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:33</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies says,</p>
<p class="poetry">“The people of Israel are oppressed.</p>
<p class="poetry">So too are the people of Judah. </p>
<p class="poetry">All those who took them captive are holding them prisoners.</p>
<p class="poetry">They refuse to set them free. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:34</span> But the one who will rescue them is strong.</p>
<p class="poetry">His name is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies. </p>
<p class="poetry">He will strongly champion their cause.</p>
<p class="poetry">As a result he will bring peace and rest to the earth,</p>
<p class="poetry">but trouble and turmoil to the people who inhabit Babylonia. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:35</span> “Destructive forces will come against the Babylonians,” says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry">“They will come against the people who inhabit Babylonia,</p>
<p class="poetry">against her leaders and her men of wisdom. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:36</span> Destructive forces will come against her false prophets; </p>
<p class="poetry">they will be shown to be fools! </p>
<p class="poetry">Destructive forces will come against her soldiers;</p>
<p class="poetry">they will be filled with terror! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:37</span> Destructive forces will come against her horses and her chariots.</p>
<p class="poetry">Destructive forces will come against all the foreign troops within her; </p>
<p class="poetry">they will be as frightened as women! </p>
<p class="poetry">Destructive forces will come against her treasures;</p>
<p class="poetry">they will be taken away as plunder! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:38</span> A drought will come upon her land;</p>
<p class="poetry">her rivers and canals will be dried up. </p>
<p class="poetry">All this will happen because her land is filled with idols. </p>
<p class="poetry">Her people act like madmen because of those idols they fear. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:39</span> Therefore desert creatures and jackals will live there;</p>
<p class="poetry">ostriches too will dwell in it. </p>
<p class="poetry">But no people will ever live there again;</p>
<p class="poetry">no one will dwell there for all time to come. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:40</span> I will destroy Babylonia just as I did</p>
<p class="poetry">Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighboring towns.</p>
<p class="poetry">No one will live there; </p>
<p class="poetry">no human being will settle in it,”</p>
<p class="poetry">says the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:41</span> “Look! An army is about to come from the north.</p>
<p class="poetry">A mighty nation and many kings are stirring into action </p>
<p class="poetry">in faraway parts of the earth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:42</span> Its soldiers are armed with bows and spears.</p>
<p class="poetry">They are cruel and show no mercy.</p>
<p class="poetry">They sound like the roaring sea</p>
<p class="poetry">as they ride forth on their horses.</p>
<p class="poetry">Lined up in formation like men going into battle,</p>
<p class="poetry">they are coming against you, fair Babylon. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:43</span> The king of Babylon will become paralyzed with fear </p>
<p class="poetry">when he hears news of their coming. </p>
<p class="poetry">Anguish will grip him,</p>
<p class="poetry">agony like that of a woman giving birth to a baby. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>50:44</span> “A lion coming up from the thick undergrowth along the Jordan</p>
<p class="poetry">scatters the sheep in the pastureland around it.</p>
<p class="poetry">So too I will chase the Babylonians off their land;</p>
<p class="poetry">then I will appoint over it whomever I choose.</p>
<p class="poetry">For there is no one like me. </p>
<p class="poetry">There is no one who can call me to account.</p>
<p class="poetry">There is no ruler that can stand up against me. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:45</span> So listen to what I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have planned against Babylon,</p>
<p class="poetry">what I intend to do to the people who inhabit the land of Babylonia. </p>
<p class="poetry">Their little ones will be dragged off like sheep.</p>
<p class="poetry">I will completely destroy their land because of what they have done. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>50:46</span> The people of the earth will quake when they hear Babylon has been captured.</p>
<p class="poetry">Her cries of anguish will be heard by the other nations.” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file818.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file820.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
