<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Numbers 28</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file148.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file150.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Numbers<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 28</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Daily Offerings</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:1</span>  The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses: <span>28:2</span> “Command the Israelites: ‘With regard to my offering, be sure to offer my food for my offering made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to me at its appointed time.’ <span>28:3</span> You will say to them, ‘This is the offering made by fire that you must offer to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>: two unblemished lambs one year old each day for a continual burnt offering. <span>28:4</span> The first lamb you must offer in the morning, and the second lamb you must offer in the late afternoon, <span>28:5</span> with one-tenth of an ephah of finely ground flour as a grain offering mixed with one-quarter of a hin of pressed olive oil. <span>28:6</span> It is a continual burnt offering that was instituted on Mount Sinai as a pleasing aroma, an offering made by fire to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:7</span> “‘And its drink offering must be one-quarter of a hin for each lamb. You must pour out the strong drink as a drink offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> in the Holy Place. <span>28:8</span> And the second lamb you must offer in the late afternoon; just as you offered the grain offering and drink offering in the morning, you must offer it as an offering made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Weekly Offerings</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:9</span> “‘On the Sabbath day, you must offer two unblemished lambs a year old, and two-tenths of an ephah of finely ground flour as a grain offering, mixed with olive oil, along with its drink offering. <span>28:10</span> This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Monthly Offerings</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:11</span> “‘On the first day of each month you must offer as a burnt offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> two young bulls, one ram, and seven unblemished lambs a year old, <span>28:12</span> with three-tenths of an ephah of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for each bull, and two-tenths of an ephah of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for the ram, <span>28:13</span> and one-tenth of an ephah of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for each lamb, as a burnt offering for a pleasing aroma, an offering made by fire to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>28:14</span> For their drink offerings, include half a hin of wine with each bull, one-third of a hin for the ram, and one-fourth of a hin for each lamb. This is the burnt offering for each month throughout the months of the year. <span>28:15</span> And one male goat must be offered to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> as a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Passover</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:16</span> “‘On the fourteenth day of the first month is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s Passover. <span>28:17</span> And on the fifteenth day of this month is the festival. For seven days bread made without yeast must be eaten. <span>28:18</span> And on the first day there is to be a holy assembly; you must do no ordinary work on it.</p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:19</span> “‘But you must offer to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> an offering made by fire, a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram, and seven lambs one year old; they must all be unblemished. <span>28:20</span> And their grain offering is to be of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil. For each bull you must offer three-tenths of an ephah, and two-tenths for the ram. <span>28:21</span> For each of the seven lambs you are to offer one-tenth of an ephah, <span>28:22</span> as well as one goat for a purification offering, to make atonement for you. <span>28:23</span> You must offer these in addition to the burnt offering in the morning that is for a continual burnt offering. <span>28:24</span> In this manner you must offer daily throughout the seven days the food of the sacrifice made by fire as a sweet aroma to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. It is to be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering. <span>28:25</span> On the seventh day you are to have a holy assembly, you must do no regular work. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Firstfruits</p><p class="bodytext"><span>28:26</span> “‘Also, on the day of the firstfruits, when you bring a new grain offering to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> during your Feast of Weeks, you are to have a holy assembly. You must do no ordinary work. <span>28:27</span> But you must offer as the burnt offering, as a sweet aroma to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, two young bulls, one ram, seven lambs one year old, <span>28:28</span> with their grain offering of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the one ram, <span>28:29</span> with one-tenth for each of the seven lambs, <span>28:30</span> as well as one male goat to make an atonement for you. <span>28:31</span> You are to offer them with their drink offerings in addition to the continual burnt offering and its grain offering—they must be unblemished. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file148.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file150.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
