<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Matthew 8</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file976.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file978.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Matthew<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 8</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Cleansing a Leper</p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:1</span> After he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. <span>8:2</span> And a leper approached and bowed low before him, saying, “Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean.” <span>8:3</span> He stretched out his hand and touched him saying, “I am willing. Be clean!” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. <span>8:4</span> Then Jesus said to him, “See that you do not speak to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest, and bring the offering that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Healing the Centurion’s Servant </p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:5</span> When he entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him asking for help: <span>8:6</span> “Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, in terrible anguish.” <span>8:7</span> Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.” <span>8:8</span> But the centurion replied, “Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof! Instead, just say the word and my servant will be healed. <span>8:9</span> For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. I say to this one, ‘Go!’ and he goes, and to another ‘Come!’ and he comes, and to my slave ‘Do this!’ and he does it.” <span>8:10</span> When Jesus heard this he was amazed and said to those who followed him, “I tell you the truth, I have not found such faith in anyone in Israel! <span>8:11</span> I tell you, many will come from the east and west to share the banquet with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, <span>8:12</span> but the sons of the kingdom will be thrown out into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” <span>8:13</span> Then Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; just as you believed, it will be done for you.” And the servant was healed at that hour. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Healings at Peter’s House </p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:14</span> Now when Jesus entered Peter’s house, he saw his mother-in-law lying down, sick with a fever. <span>8:15</span> He touched her hand, and the fever left her. Then she got up and began to serve them. <span>8:16</span> When it was evening, many demon-possessed people were brought to him. He drove out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick. <span>8:17</span> In this way what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah was fulfilled: </p>
<p class="poetry">“<i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">He took our weaknesses and carried our diseases</b></i>.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Challenging Professed Followers </p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:18</span> Now when Jesus saw a large crowd around him, he gave orders to go to the other side of the lake. <span>8:19</span> Then an expert in the law came to him and said, “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.” <span>8:20</span> Jesus said to him, “Foxes have dens, and the birds in the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.” <span>8:21</span> Another of the disciples said to him, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.” <span>8:22</span> But Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Stilling of a Storm </p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:23</span> As he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. <span>8:24</span> And a great storm developed on the sea so that the waves began to swamp the boat. But he was asleep. <span>8:25</span> So they came and woke him up saying, “Lord, save us! We are about to die!” <span>8:26</span> But he said to them, “Why are you cowardly, you people of little faith?” Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and it was dead calm. <span>8:27</span> And the men were amazed and said, “What sort of person is this? Even the winds and the sea obey him!” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Healing the Gadarene Demoniacs </p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:28</span> When he came to the other side, to the region of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men coming from the tombs met him. They were extremely violent, so that no one was able to pass by that way. <span>8:29</span> They cried out, “Son of God, leave us alone! Have you come here to torment us before the time?” <span>8:30</span> A large herd of pigs was feeding some distance from them. <span>8:31</span> Then the demons begged him, “If you drive us out, send us into the herd of pigs.” <span>8:32</span> And he said, “Go!” So they came out and went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep slope into the lake and drowned in the water. <span>8:33</span> The herdsmen ran off, went into the town, and told everything that had happened to the demon-possessed men. <span>8:34</span> Then the entire town came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file976.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file978.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
