<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Mark 4</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1001.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1003.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Mark<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 4</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Parable of the Sower </p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:1</span> Again he began to teach by the lake. Such a large crowd gathered around him that he got into a boat on the lake and sat there while the whole crowd was on the shore by the lake. <span>4:2</span> He taught them many things in parables, and in his teaching said to them: <span>4:3</span> “Listen! A sower went out to sow. <span>4:4</span> And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it. <span>4:5</span> Other seed fell on rocky ground where it did not have much soil. It sprang up at once because the soil was not deep. <span>4:6</span> When the sun came up it was scorched, and because it did not have sufficient root, it withered. <span>4:7</span> Other seed fell among the thorns, and they grew up and choked it, and it did not produce grain. <span>4:8</span> But other seed fell on good soil and produced grain, sprouting and growing; some yielded thirty times as much, some sixty, and some a hundred times.” <span>4:9</span> And he said, “Whoever has ears to hear had better listen!” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Purpose of Parables </p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:10</span> When he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables. <span>4:11</span> He said to them, “The secret of the kingdom of God has been given to you. But to those outside, everything is in parables, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>4:12</span> so that <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">although they look they may look but not see,</i></b></p>
<p class="poetry"><b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">and although they hear they may hear but not understand,</i></b></p>
<p class="poetry"><i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">so they may not repent and be forgiven</b></i>.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>4:13</span> He said to them, “Don’t you understand this parable? Then how will you understand any parable? <span>4:14</span> The sower sows the word. <span>4:15</span> These are the ones on the path where the word is sown: Whenever they hear, immediately Satan comes and snatches the word that was sown in them. <span>4:16</span> These are the ones sown on rocky ground: As soon as they hear the word, they receive it with joy. <span>4:17</span> But they have no root in themselves and do not endure. Then, when trouble or persecution comes because of the word, immediately they fall away. <span>4:18</span> Others are the ones sown among thorns: They are those who hear the word, <span>4:19</span> but worldly cares, the seductiveness of wealth, and the desire for other things come in and choke the word, and it produces nothing. <span>4:20</span> But these are the ones sown on good soil: They hear the word and receive it and bear fruit, one thirty times as much, one sixty, and one a hundred.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Parable of the Lamp</p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:21</span> He also said to them, “A lamp isn’t brought to be put under a basket or under a bed, is it? Isn’t it to be placed on a lampstand? <span>4:22</span> For nothing is hidden except to be revealed, and nothing concealed except to be brought to light. <span>4:23</span> If anyone has ears to hear, he had better listen!” <span>4:24</span> And he said to them, “Take care about what you hear. The measure you use will be the measure you receive, and more will be added to you. <span>4:25</span> For whoever has will be given more, but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Parable of the Growing Seed</p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:26</span> He also said, “The kingdom of God is like someone who spreads seed on the ground. <span>4:27</span> He goes to sleep and gets up, night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows, though he does not know how. <span>4:28</span> By itself the soil produces a crop, first the stalk, then the head, then the full grain in the head. <span>4:29</span> And when the grain is ripe, he sends in the sickle because the harvest has come.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Parable of the Mustard Seed </p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:30</span> He also asked, “To what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable can we use to present it? <span>4:31</span> It is like a mustard seed that when sown in the ground, even though it is the smallest of all the seeds in the ground— <span>4:32</span> when it is sown, it grows up, becomes the greatest of all garden plants, and grows large branches so that the wild birds can nest in its shade.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Use of Parables </p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:33</span> So with many parables like these, he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear. <span>4:34</span> He did not speak to them without a parable. But privately he explained everything to his own disciples. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Stilling of a Storm </p><p class="bodytext"><span>4:35</span> On that day, when evening came, Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s go across to the other side of the lake.” <span>4:36</span> So after leaving the crowd, they took him along, just as he was, in the boat, and other boats were with him. <span>4:37</span> Now a great windstorm developed and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was nearly swamped. <span>4:38</span> But he was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion. They woke him up and said to him, “Teacher, don’t you care that we are about to die?” <span>4:39</span> So he got up and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, “Be quiet! Calm down!” Then the wind stopped, and it was dead calm. <span>4:40</span> And he said to them, “Why are you cowardly? Do you still not have faith?” <span>4:41</span> They were overwhelmed by fear and said to one another, “Who then is this? Even the wind and sea obey him!” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1001.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1003.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
