<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Luke 24</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1038.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1040.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Luke<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 24</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Resurrection </p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:1</span> Now on the first day of the week, at early dawn, the women went to the tomb, taking the aromatic spices they had prepared. <span>24:2</span> They found that the stone had been rolled away from the tomb, <span>24:3</span> but when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. <span>24:4</span> While they were perplexed about this, suddenly two men stood beside them in dazzling attire. <span>24:5</span> The women were terribly frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “Why do you look for the living among the dead? <span>24:6</span> He is not here, but has been raised! Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee, <span>24:7</span> that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.” <span>24:8</span> Then the women remembered his words, <span>24:9</span> and when they returned from the tomb they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. <span>24:10</span> Now it was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles. <span>24:11</span> But these words seemed like pure nonsense to them, and they did not believe them. <span>24:12</span> But Peter got up and ran to the tomb. He bent down and saw only the strips of linen cloth; then he went home, wondering what had happened. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus Walks the Road to Emmaus</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:13</span> Now that very day two of them were on their way to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. <span>24:14</span> They were talking to each other about all the things that had happened. <span>24:15</span> While they were talking and debating these things, Jesus himself approached and began to accompany them <span>24:16</span> (but their eyes were kept from recognizing him). <span>24:17</span> Then he said to them, “What are these matters you are discussing so intently as you walk along?” And they stood still, looking sad. <span>24:18</span> Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, “Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who doesn’t know the things that have happened there in these days?” <span>24:19</span> He said to them, “What things?” “The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene,” they replied, “a man who, with his powerful deeds and words, proved to be a prophet before God and all the people; <span>24:20</span> and how our chief priests and leaders handed him over to be condemned to death, and crucified him. <span>24:21</span> But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. Not only this, but it is now the third day since these things happened. <span>24:22</span> Furthermore, some women of our group amazed us. They were at the tomb early this morning, <span>24:23</span> and when they did not find his body, they came back and said they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. <span>24:24</span> Then some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see him.” <span>24:25</span> So he said to them, “You foolish people —how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken! <span>24:26</span> Wasn’t it necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and enter into his glory?” <span>24:27</span> Then beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them the things written about himself in all the scriptures. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>24:28</span> So they approached the village where they were going. He acted as though he wanted to go farther, <span>24:29</span> but they urged him, “Stay with us, because it is getting toward evening and the day is almost done.” So he went in to stay with them. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>24:30</span> When he had taken his place at the table with them, he took the bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them. <span>24:31</span> At this point their eyes were opened and they recognized him. Then he vanished out of their sight. <span>24:32</span> They said to each other, “Didn’t our hearts burn within us while he was speaking with us on the road, while he was explaining the scriptures to us?” <span>24:33</span> So they got up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem. They found the eleven and those with them gathered together <span>24:34</span> and saying, “The Lord has really risen, and has appeared to Simon!” <span>24:35</span> Then they told what had happened on the road, and how they recognized him when he broke the bread. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus Makes a Final Appearance </p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:36</span> While they were saying these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.” <span>24:37</span> But they were startled and terrified, thinking they saw a ghost. <span>24:38</span> Then he said to them, “Why are you frightened, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? <span>24:39</span> Look at my hands and my feet; it’s me! Touch me and see; a ghost does not have flesh and bones like you see I have.” <span>24:40</span> When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. <span>24:41</span> And while they still could not believe it (because of their joy) and were amazed, he said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?” <span>24:42</span> So they gave him a piece of broiled fish, <span>24:43</span> and he took it and ate it in front of them. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus’ Final Commission</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:44</span> Then he said to them, “These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled.” <span>24:45</span> Then he opened their minds so they could understand the scriptures, <span>24:46</span> and said to them, “Thus it stands written that the Christ would suffer and would rise from the dead on the third day, <span>24:47</span> and repentance for the forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. <span>24:48</span> You are witnesses of these things. <span>24:49</span> And look, I am sending you what my Father promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus’ Departure</p><p class="bodytext"><span>24:50</span> Then Jesus led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them. <span>24:51</span> Now during the blessing he departed and was taken up into heaven. <span>24:52</span> So they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, <span>24:53</span> and were continually in the temple courts blessing God. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1038.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1040.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
