<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Psalms 78</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file574.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file576.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h2 class="calibre3">Psalm 78</h2><p class="psasuper">A well-written song by Asaph.</p><p class="poetry"><span>78:1</span> Pay attention, my people, to my instruction.</p>
<p class="poetry">Listen to the words I speak. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:2</span> I will sing a song that imparts wisdom;</p>
<p class="poetry">I will make insightful observations about the past. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:3</span> What we have heard and learned —</p>
<p class="poetry">that which our ancestors have told us—</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:4</span> we will not hide from their descendants.</p>
<p class="poetry">We will tell the next generation</p>
<p class="poetry">about the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s praiseworthy acts, </p>
<p class="poetry">about his strength and the amazing things he has done. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:5</span> He established a rule in Jacob;</p>
<p class="poetry">he set up a law in Israel.</p>
<p class="poetry">He commanded our ancestors</p>
<p class="poetry">to make his deeds known to their descendants, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:6</span> so that the next generation, children yet to be born,</p>
<p class="poetry">might know about them.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will grow up and tell their descendants about them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:7</span> Then they will place their confidence in God.</p>
<p class="poetry">They will not forget the works of God,</p>
<p class="poetry">and they will obey his commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:8</span> Then they will not be like their ancestors,</p>
<p class="poetry">who were a stubborn and rebellious generation,</p>
<p class="poetry">a generation that was not committed</p>
<p class="poetry">and faithful to God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:9</span> The Ephraimites were armed with bows, </p>
<p class="poetry">but they retreated in the day of battle. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:10</span> They did not keep their covenant with God, </p>
<p class="poetry">and they refused to obey his law. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:11</span> They forgot what he had done, </p>
<p class="poetry">the amazing things he had shown them.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:12</span> He did amazing things in the sight of their ancestors,</p>
<p class="poetry">in the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:13</span> He divided the sea and led them across it;</p>
<p class="poetry">he made the water stand in a heap. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:14</span> He led them with a cloud by day,</p>
<p class="poetry">and with the light of a fire all night long.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:15</span> He broke open rocks in the wilderness,</p>
<p class="poetry">and gave them enough water to fill the depths of the sea. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:16</span> He caused streams to flow from the rock,</p>
<p class="poetry">and made the water flow like rivers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:17</span> Yet they continued to sin against him,</p>
<p class="poetry">and rebelled against the Most High in the desert. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:18</span> They willfully challenged God </p>
<p class="poetry">by asking for food to satisfy their appetite. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:19</span> They insulted God, saying, </p>
<p class="poetry">“Is God really able to give us food in the wilderness? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:20</span> Yes, he struck a rock and water flowed out;</p>
<p class="poetry">streams gushed forth.</p>
<p class="poetry">But can he also give us food?</p>
<p class="poetry">Will he provide meat for his people?” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:21</span> When the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> heard this, he was furious.</p>
<p class="poetry">A fire broke out against Jacob,</p>
<p class="poetry">and his anger flared up against Israel, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:22</span> because they did not have faith in God,</p>
<p class="poetry">and did not trust his ability to deliver them. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:23</span> He gave a command to the clouds above,</p>
<p class="poetry">and opened the doors in the sky. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:24</span> He rained down manna for them to eat;</p>
<p class="poetry">he gave them the grain of heaven. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:25</span> Man ate the food of the mighty ones. </p>
<p class="poetry">He sent them more than enough to eat. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:26</span> He brought the east wind through the sky,</p>
<p class="poetry">and by his strength led forth the south wind. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:27</span> He rained down meat on them like dust,</p>
<p class="poetry">birds as numerous as the sand on the seashores. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:28</span> He caused them to fall right in the middle of their camp,</p>
<p class="poetry">all around their homes. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:29</span> They ate until they were beyond full; </p>
<p class="poetry">he gave them what they desired. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:30</span> They were not yet filled up; </p>
<p class="poetry">their food was still in their mouths, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:31</span> when the anger of God flared up against them.</p>
<p class="poetry">He killed some of the strongest of them;</p>
<p class="poetry">he brought the young men of Israel to their knees. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:32</span> Despite all this, they continued to sin,</p>
<p class="poetry">and did not trust him to do amazing things. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:33</span> So he caused them to die unsatisfied </p>
<p class="poetry">and filled with terror. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:34</span> When he struck them down, they sought his favor; </p>
<p class="poetry">they turned back and longed for God. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:35</span> They remembered that God was their protector, </p>
<p class="poetry">and that God Most High was their deliverer. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:36</span> But they deceived him with their words, </p>
<p class="poetry">and lied to him. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:37</span> They were not really committed to him, </p>
<p class="poetry">and they were unfaithful to his covenant. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:38</span> Yet he is compassionate.</p>
<p class="poetry">He forgives sin and does not destroy.</p>
<p class="poetry">He often holds back his anger,</p>
<p class="poetry">and does not stir up his fury. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:39</span> He remembered that they were made of flesh,</p>
<p class="poetry">and were like a wind that blows past and does not return. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:40</span> How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness,</p>
<p class="poetry">and insulted him in the wastelands.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:41</span> They again challenged God, </p>
<p class="poetry">and offended the Holy One of Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:42</span> They did not remember what he had done, </p>
<p class="poetry">how he delivered them from the enemy, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:43</span> when he performed his awesome deeds in Egypt,</p>
<p class="poetry">and his acts of judgment in the region of Zoan. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:44</span> He turned their rivers into blood,</p>
<p class="poetry">and they could not drink from their streams. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:45</span> He sent swarms of biting insects against them, </p>
<p class="poetry">as well as frogs that overran their land. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:46</span> He gave their crops to the grasshopper,</p>
<p class="poetry">the fruit of their labor to the locust. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:47</span> He destroyed their vines with hail,</p>
<p class="poetry">and their sycamore-fig trees with driving rain. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:48</span> He rained hail down on their cattle, </p>
<p class="poetry">and hurled lightning bolts down on their livestock. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:49</span> His raging anger lashed out against them. </p>
<p class="poetry">He sent fury, rage, and trouble</p>
<p class="poetry">as messengers who bring disaster. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:50</span> He sent his anger in full force. </p>
<p class="poetry">He did not spare them from death;</p>
<p class="poetry">he handed their lives over to destruction. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:51</span> He struck down all the firstborn in Egypt,</p>
<p class="poetry">the firstfruits of their reproductive power in the tents of Ham. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:52</span> Yet he brought out his people like sheep;</p>
<p class="poetry">he led them through the wilderness like a flock. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:53</span> He guided them safely along, and they were not afraid;</p>
<p class="poetry">but the sea covered their enemies. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:54</span> He brought them to the border of his holy land,</p>
<p class="poetry">to this mountainous land that his right hand acquired. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:55</span> He drove the nations out from before them;</p>
<p class="poetry">he assigned them their tribal allotments </p>
<p class="poetry">and allowed the tribes of Israel to settle down. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:56</span> Yet they challenged and defied God Most High, </p>
<p class="poetry">and did not obey his commands. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:57</span> They were unfaithful and acted as treacherously as their ancestors;</p>
<p class="poetry">they were as unreliable as a malfunctioning bow. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:58</span> They made him angry with their pagan shrines, </p>
<p class="poetry">and made him jealous with their idols. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:59</span> God heard and was angry;</p>
<p class="poetry">he completely rejected Israel. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:60</span> He abandoned the sanctuary at Shiloh,</p>
<p class="poetry">the tent where he lived among men. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:61</span> He allowed the symbol of his strong presence to be captured; </p>
<p class="poetry">he gave the symbol of his splendor into the hand of the enemy. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:62</span> He delivered his people over to the sword,</p>
<p class="poetry">and was angry with his chosen nation. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:63</span> Fire consumed their young men,</p>
<p class="poetry">and their virgins remained unmarried. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:64</span> Their priests fell by the sword,</p>
<p class="poetry">but their widows did not weep. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:65</span> But then the Lord awoke from his sleep; </p>
<p class="poetry">he was like a warrior in a drunken rage. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:66</span> He drove his enemies back;</p>
<p class="poetry">he made them a permanent target for insults. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:67</span> He rejected the tent of Joseph;</p>
<p class="poetry">he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:68</span> He chose the tribe of Judah</p>
<p class="poetry">and Mount Zion, which he loves. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:69</span> He made his sanctuary as enduring as the heavens above, </p>
<p class="poetry">as secure as the earth, which he established permanently. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:70</span> He chose David, his servant,</p>
<p class="poetry">and took him from the sheepfolds. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:71</span> He took him away from following the mother sheep, </p>
<p class="poetry">and made him the shepherd of Jacob, his people,</p>
<p class="poetry">and of Israel, his chosen nation. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>78:72</span> David cared for them with pure motives; </p>
<p class="poetry">he led them with skill. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file574.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file576.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
