<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 1 Chronicles 29</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file379.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file381.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">1 Chronicles<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 29</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The People Contribute to the Project</p><p class="bodytext"><span>29:1</span> King David said to the entire assembly: “My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is just an inexperienced young man, and the task is great, for this palace is not for man, but for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God. <span>29:2</span> So I have made every effort to provide what is needed for the temple of my God, including the gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, as well as a large amount of onyx, settings of antimony and other stones, all kinds of precious stones, and alabaster. <span>29:3</span> Now, to show my commitment to the temple of my God, I donate my personal treasure of gold and silver to the temple of my God, in addition to all that I have already supplied for this holy temple. <span>29:4</span> This includes 3,000 talents of gold from Ophir and 7,000 talents of refined silver for overlaying the walls of the buildings, <span>29:5</span> for gold and silver items, and for all the work of the craftsmen. Who else wants to contribute to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> today?” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>29:6</span> The leaders of the families, the leaders of the Israelite tribes, the commanders of units of a thousand and a hundred, and the supervisors of the king’s work contributed willingly. <span>29:7</span> They donated for the service of God’s temple 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics of gold, 10,000 talents of silver, 18,000 talents of bronze, and 100,000 talents of iron. <span>29:8</span> All who possessed precious stones donated them to the treasury of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s temple, which was under the supervision of Jehiel the Gershonite. <span>29:9</span> The people were delighted with their donations, for they contributed to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> with a willing attitude; King David was also very happy. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Praises the Lord</p><p class="bodytext"><span>29:10</span> David praised the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> before the entire assembly: </p>
<p class="bodytext">“O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of our father Israel, you deserve praise forevermore! <span>29:11</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, you are great, mighty, majestic, magnificent, glorious, and sovereign over all the sky and earth! You, <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have dominion and exalt yourself as the ruler of all. <span>29:12</span> You are the source of wealth and honor; you rule over all. You possess strength and might to magnify and give strength to all. <span>29:13</span> Now, our God, we give thanks to you and praise your majestic name! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>29:14</span> “But who am I and who are my people, that we should be in a position to contribute this much? Indeed, everything comes from you, and we have simply given back to you what is yours. <span>29:15</span> For we are resident foreigners and temporary settlers in your presence, as all our ancestors were; our days are like a shadow on the earth, without security. <span>29:16</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God, all this wealth, which we have collected to build a temple for you to honor your holy name, comes from you; it all belongs to you. <span>29:17</span> I know, my God, that you examine thoughts and are pleased with integrity. With pure motives I contribute all this; and now I look with joy as your people who have gathered here contribute to you. <span>29:18</span> O <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of our ancestors Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, always maintain these motives of your people and keep them devoted to you. <span>29:19</span> Make my son Solomon willing to obey your commands, rules, and regulations, and to complete building the palace for which I have made preparations.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>29:20</span> David told the entire assembly: “Praise the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God!” So the entire assembly praised the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of their ancestors; they bowed down and stretched out flat on the ground before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and the king. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Designates Solomon King</p><p class="bodytext"><span>29:21</span> The next day they made sacrifices and offered burnt sacrifices to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> (1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams, 1,000 lambs), along with their accompanying drink offerings and many other sacrifices for all Israel. <span>29:22</span> They held a feast before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> that day and celebrated. </p>
<p class="bodytext">Then they designated Solomon, David’s son, as king a second time; before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> they anointed him as ruler and Zadok as priest. <span>29:23</span> Solomon sat on the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s throne as king in place of his father David; he was successful and all Israel was loyal to him. <span>29:24</span> All the officers and warriors, as well as all of King David’s sons, pledged their allegiance to King Solomon. <span>29:25</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> greatly magnified Solomon before all Israel and bestowed on him greater majesty than any king of Israel before him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David’s Reign Comes to an End</p><p class="bodytext"><span>29:26</span> David son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. <span>29:27</span> He reigned over Israel forty years; he reigned in Hebron seven years and in Jerusalem thirty-three years. <span>29:28</span> He died at a good old age, having enjoyed long life, wealth, and honor. His son Solomon succeeded him. <span>29:29</span> King David’s accomplishments, from start to finish, are recorded in the Annals of Samuel the prophet, the Annals of Nathan the prophet, and the Annals of Gad the prophet. <span>29:30</span> Recorded there are all the facts about his reign and accomplishments, and an account of the events that involved him, Israel, and all the neighboring kingdoms. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file379.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file381.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
