<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ephesians 5</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1150.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1152.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ephesians<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 5</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Live in Love</p><p class="bodytext"><span>5:1</span> Therefore, be imitators of God as dearly loved children <span>5:2</span> and live in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself for us, a sacrificial and fragrant offering to God. <span>5:3</span> But among you there must not be either sexual immorality, impurity of any kind, or greed, as these are not fitting for the saints. <span>5:4</span> Neither should there be vulgar speech, foolish talk, or coarse jesting—all of which are out of character—but rather thanksgiving. <span>5:5</span> For you can be confident of this one thing: that no person who is immoral, impure, or greedy (such a person is an idolater) has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Live in the Light</p><p class="bodytext"><span>5:6</span> Let nobody deceive you with empty words, for because of these things God’s wrath comes on the sons of disobedience. <span>5:7</span> Therefore do not be sharers with them, <span>5:8</span> for you were at one time darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live like children of light— <span>5:9</span> for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth— <span>5:10</span> trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. <span>5:11</span> Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. <span>5:12</span> For the things they do in secret are shameful even to mention. <span>5:13</span> But all things being exposed by the light are made visible. <span>5:14</span> For everything made visible is light, and for this reason it says: </p>
<p class="poetry">“Awake, O sleeper! </p>
<p class="poetry">Rise from the dead,</p>
<p class="poetry">and Christ will shine on you!” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Live Wisely</p><p class="bodytext"><span>5:15</span> Therefore consider carefully how you live—not as unwise but as wise, <span>5:16</span> taking advantage of every opportunity, because the days are evil. <span>5:17</span> For this reason do not be foolish, but be wise by understanding what the Lord’s will is. <span>5:18</span> And do not get drunk with wine, which is debauchery, but be filled by the Spirit, <span>5:19</span> speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making music in your hearts to the Lord, <span>5:20</span> always giving thanks to God the Father for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, <span>5:21</span> and submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Exhortations to Households</p><p class="bodytext"><span>5:22</span>  Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord, <span>5:23</span> because the husband is the head of the wife as also Christ is the head of the church (he himself being the savior of the body). <span>5:24</span> But as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. <span>5:25</span> Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her <span>5:26</span> to sanctify her by cleansing her with the washing of the water by the word, <span>5:27</span> so that he may present the church to himself as glorious—not having a stain or wrinkle, or any such blemish, but holy and blameless. <span>5:28</span> In the same way husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. <span>5:29</span> For no one has ever hated his own body, but he feeds it and takes care of it, just as Christ also does the church, <span>5:30</span> because we are members of his body. <span>5:31</span> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">For</i></b> <b class="calibre8"><i class="calibre10">this reason a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife, and the two will become</i></b> <i class="calibre10"><b class="calibre8">one flesh.</b></i> <span>5:32</span> This mystery is great—but I am actually speaking with reference to Christ and the church. <span>5:33</span> Nevertheless, each one of you must also love his own wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1150.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1152.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
