<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Ezekiel 20</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file847.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file849.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Ezekiel<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 20</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Israel’s Rebellion</p><p class="bodytext"><span>20:1</span> In the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth of the month, some of the elders of Israel came to seek the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, and they sat down in front of me. <span>20:2</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>20:3</span> “Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and tell them: ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Are you coming to seek me? As surely as I live, I will not allow you to seek me, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’ <span>20:4</span> Are you willing to pronounce judgment on them? Are you willing to pronounce judgment, son of man? Then confront them with the abominable practices of their fathers, <span>20:5</span> and say to them: </p>
<p class="bodytext">“‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: On the day I chose Israel I swore to the descendants of the house of Jacob and made myself known to them in the land of Egypt. I swore to them, “I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God.” <span>20:6</span> On that day I swore to bring them out of the land of Egypt to a land that I had picked out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most beautiful of all lands. <span>20:7</span> I said to them, “Each of you must get rid of the detestable idols you keep before you, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God.” <span>20:8</span> But they rebelled against me and refused to listen to me; no one got rid of their detestable idols, nor did they abandon the idols of Egypt. Then I decided to pour out my rage on them and fully vent my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. <span>20:9</span> I acted for the sake of my reputation, so that I would not be profaned before the nations among whom they lived, before whom I revealed myself by bringing them out of the land of Egypt. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:10</span> “‘So I brought them out of the land of Egypt and led them to the wilderness. <span>20:11</span> I gave them my statutes and revealed my regulations to them. The one who carries them out will live by them! <span>20:12</span> I also gave them my Sabbaths as a reminder of our relationship, so that they would know that I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, sanctify them. <span>20:13</span> But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness; they did not follow my statutes and they rejected my regulations (the one who obeys them will live by them), and they utterly desecrated my Sabbaths. So I decided to pour out my rage on them in the wilderness and destroy them. <span>20:14</span> I acted for the sake of my reputation, so that I would not be profaned before the nations in whose sight I had brought them out. <span>20:15</span> I also swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them to the land I had given them—a land flowing with milk and honey, the most beautiful of all lands. <span>20:16</span> I did this because they rejected my regulations, did not follow my statutes, and desecrated my Sabbaths; for their hearts followed their idols. <span>20:17</span> Yet I had pity on them and did not destroy them, so I did not make an end of them in the wilderness. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:18</span> “‘But I said to their children in the wilderness, “Do not follow the practices of your fathers; do not observe their regulations, nor defile yourselves with their idols. <span>20:19</span> I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God; follow my statutes, observe my regulations, and carry them out. <span>20:20</span> Treat my Sabbaths as holy and they will be a reminder of our relationship, and then you will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God.” <span>20:21</span> But the children rebelled against me, did not follow my statutes, did not observe my regulations by carrying them out (the one who obeys them will live by them), and desecrated my Sabbaths. I decided to pour out my rage on them and fully vent my anger against them in the wilderness. <span>20:22</span> But I refrained from doing so and acted instead for the sake of my reputation, so that I would not be profaned before the nations in whose sight I had brought them out. <span>20:23</span> I also swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them throughout the lands. <span>20:24</span> I did this because they did not observe my regulations, they rejected my statutes, they desecrated my Sabbaths, and their eyes were fixed on their fathers’ idols. <span>20:25</span> I also gave them decrees that were not good and regulations by which they could not live. <span>20:26</span> I declared them to be defiled because of their sacrifices —they caused all their firstborn to pass through the fire —so that I might devastate them, so that they would know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’ </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:27</span> “Therefore, speak to the house of Israel, son of man, and tell them, ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: In this way too your fathers blasphemed me when they were unfaithful to me. <span>20:28</span> I brought them to the land that I swore to give them, but whenever they saw any high hill or leafy tree, they offered their sacrifices there and presented the offerings that provoked me to anger. They offered their soothing aroma there and poured out their drink offerings. <span>20:29</span> So I said to them, “What is this high place you go to?”’ (So it is called “High Place” to this day.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:30</span> “Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Will you defile yourselves like your fathers and engage in prostitution with detestable idols? <span>20:31</span> When you present your sacrifices —when you make your sons pass through the fire—you defile yourselves with all your idols to this very day. Will I allow you to seek me, O house of Israel? As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, I will not allow you to seek me! </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:32</span> “‘What you plan will never happen. You say, “We will be like the nations, like the clans of the lands, who serve gods of wood and stone.” <span>20:33</span> As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, with a powerful hand and an outstretched arm and with an outpouring of rage, I will be king over you. <span>20:34</span> I will bring you out from the nations and will gather you from the lands where you are scattered, with a powerful hand and an outstretched arm and with an outpouring of rage! <span>20:35</span> I will bring you into the wilderness of the nations, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face. <span>20:36</span> Just as I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. <span>20:37</span> I will make you pass under the shepherd’s staff, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. <span>20:38</span> I will eliminate from among you the rebels and those who revolt against me. I will bring them out from the land where they have been residing, but they will not come to the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:39</span> “‘As for you, O house of Israel, this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> says: Each of you go and serve your idols, if you will not listen to me. But my holy name will not be profaned again by your sacrifices and your idols. <span>20:40</span> For there on my holy mountain, the high mountain of Israel, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, all the house of Israel will serve me, all of them in the land. I will accept them there, and there I will seek your contributions and your choice gifts, with all your holy things. <span>20:41</span> When I bring you out from the nations and gather you from the lands where you are scattered, I will accept you along with your soothing aroma. I will display my holiness among you in the sight of the nations. <span>20:42</span> Then you will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> when I bring you to the land of Israel, to the land I swore to give to your fathers. <span>20:43</span> And there you will remember your conduct and all your deeds by which you defiled yourselves. You will despise yourselves because of all the evil deeds you have done. <span>20:44</span> Then you will know that I am the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, when I deal with you for the sake of my reputation and not according to your wicked conduct and corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.’”</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Prophecy Against the South</p><p class="bodytext"><span>20:45</span> (21:1) The <span class="smcaps">Lord’</span>s message came to me: <span>20:46</span> “Son of man, turn toward the south, and speak out against the south. Prophesy against the open scrub land of the Negev, <span>20:47</span> and say to the scrub land of the Negev, ‘Listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message! This is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said: Look here, I am about to start a fire in you, and it will devour every green tree and every dry tree in you. The flaming fire will not be extinguished, and the whole surface of the ground from the Negev to the north will be scorched by it. <span>20:48</span> And everyone will see that I, the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, have burned it; it will not be extinguished.’” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>20:49</span> Then I said, “O Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>! They are saying of me, ‘Does he not simply speak in eloquent figures of speech?’” </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file847.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file849.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
