<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Genesis 25</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file25.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file27.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Genesis<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 25</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Death of Abraham</p><p class="bodytext"><span>25:1</span> Abraham had taken another wife, named Keturah. <span>25:2</span> She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. <span>25:3</span> Jokshan became the father of Sheba and Dedan. The descendants of Dedan were the Asshurites, Letushites, and Leummites. <span>25:4</span> The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were descendants of Keturah. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:5</span> Everything he owned Abraham left to his son Isaac. <span>25:6</span> But while he was still alive, Abraham gave gifts to the sons of his concubines and sent them off to the east, away from his son Isaac. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:7</span> Abraham lived a total of 175 years. <span>25:8</span> Then Abraham breathed his last and died at a good old age, an old man who had lived a full life. He joined his ancestors. <span>25:9</span> His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah near Mamre, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar, the Hittite. <span>25:10</span> This was the field Abraham had purchased from the sons of Heth. There Abraham was buried with his wife Sarah. <span>25:11</span> After Abraham’s death, God blessed his son Isaac. Isaac lived near Beer Lahai Roi. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Sons of Ishmael</p><p class="bodytext"><span>25:12</span> This is the account of Abraham’s son Ishmael, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s servant, bore to Abraham. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:13</span> These are the names of Ishmael’s sons, by their names according to their records: Nebaioth (Ishmael’s firstborn), Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, <span>25:14</span> Mishma, Dumah, Massa, <span>25:15</span> Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. <span>25:16</span> These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names by their settlements and their camps—twelve princes according to their clans. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:17</span> Ishmael lived a total of 137 years. He breathed his last and died; then he joined his ancestors. <span>25:18</span> His descendants settled from Havilah to Shur, which runs next to Egypt all the way to Asshur. They settled away from all their relatives. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jacob and Esau</p><p class="bodytext"><span>25:19</span> This is the account of Isaac, the son of Abraham.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Abraham became the father of Isaac. <span>25:20</span> When Isaac was forty years old, he married Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Paddan Aram and sister of Laban the Aramean. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:21</span> Isaac prayed to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> on behalf of his wife because she was childless. The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> answered his prayer, and his wife Rebekah became pregnant. <span>25:22</span> But the children struggled inside her, and she said, “Why is this happening to me?” So she asked the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, <span>25:23</span> and the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to her,</p>
<p class="poetry">“Two nations are in your womb, </p>
<p class="poetry">and two peoples will be separated from within you.</p>
<p class="poetry">One people will be stronger than the other,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the older will serve the younger.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:24</span> When the time came for Rebekah to give birth, there were twins in her womb. <span>25:25</span> The first came out reddish all over, like a hairy garment, so they named him Esau. <span>25:26</span> When his brother came out with his hand clutching Esau’s heel, they named him Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when they were born. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:27</span> When the boys grew up, Esau became a skilled hunter, a man of the open fields, but Jacob was an even-tempered man, living in tents. <span>25:28</span> Isaac loved Esau because he had a taste for fresh game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:29</span> Now Jacob cooked some stew, and when Esau came in from the open fields, he was famished. <span>25:30</span> So Esau said to Jacob, “Feed me some of the red stuff—yes, this red stuff—because I’m starving!” (That is why he was also called Edom.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:31</span> But Jacob replied, “First sell me your birthright.” <span>25:32</span> “Look,” said Esau, “I’m about to die! What use is the birthright to me?” <span>25:33</span> But Jacob said, “Swear an oath to me now.” So Esau swore an oath to him and sold his birthright to Jacob. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>25:34</span> Then Jacob gave Esau some bread and lentil stew; Esau ate and drank, then got up and went out. So Esau despised his birthright. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file25.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file27.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
