<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Isaiah 28</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file729.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file731.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Isaiah<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 28</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Will Judge Ephraim</p><p class="poetry"><span>28:1</span> The splendid crown of Ephraim’s drunkards is doomed, </p>
<p class="poetry">the withering flower, its beautiful splendor, </p>
<p class="poetry">situated at the head of a rich valley,</p>
<p class="poetry">the crown of those overcome with wine. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:2</span> Look, the Lord sends a strong, powerful one. </p>
<p class="poetry">With the force of a hailstorm or a destructive windstorm, </p>
<p class="poetry">with the might of a driving, torrential rainstorm, </p>
<p class="poetry">he will knock that crown to the ground with his hand. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:3</span> The splendid crown of Ephraim’s drunkards</p>
<p class="poetry">will be trampled underfoot. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:4</span> The withering flower, its beautiful splendor,</p>
<p class="poetry">situated at the head of a rich valley, </p>
<p class="poetry">will be like an early fig before harvest—</p>
<p class="poetry">as soon as someone notices it,</p>
<p class="poetry">he grabs it and swallows it. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:5</span> At that time the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies will become a beautiful crown </p>
<p class="poetry">and a splendid diadem for the remnant of his people. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:6</span> He will give discernment to the one who makes judicial decisions,</p>
<p class="poetry">and strength to those who defend the city from attackers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:7</span> Even these men stagger because of wine;</p>
<p class="poetry">they stumble around because of beer—</p>
<p class="poetry">priests and prophets stagger because of beer,</p>
<p class="poetry">they are confused because of wine,</p>
<p class="poetry">they stumble around because of beer;</p>
<p class="poetry">they stagger while seeing prophetic visions, </p>
<p class="poetry">they totter while making legal decisions. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:8</span> Indeed, all the tables</p>
<p class="poetry">are covered with vomit,</p>
<p class="poetry">with filth, leaving no clean place. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:9</span> Who is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> trying to teach?</p>
<p class="poetry">To whom is he explaining a message? </p>
<p class="poetry">To those just weaned from milk!</p>
<p class="poetry">To those just taken from their mother’s breast! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:10</span> Indeed, they will hear meaningless gibberish,</p>
<p class="poetry">senseless babbling,</p>
<p class="poetry">a syllable here, a syllable there. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:11</span> For with mocking lips and a foreign tongue</p>
<p class="poetry">he will speak to these people. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:12</span> In the past he said to them, </p>
<p class="poetry">“This is where security can be found.</p>
<p class="poetry">Provide security for the one who is exhausted.</p>
<p class="poetry">This is where rest can be found.” </p>
<p class="poetry">But they refused to listen. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:13</span> So the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message to them will sound like</p>
<p class="poetry">meaningless gibberish,</p>
<p class="poetry">senseless babbling,</p>
<p class="poetry">a syllable here, a syllable there. </p>
<p class="poetry">As a result, they will fall on their backsides when they try to walk, </p>
<p class="poetry">and be injured, ensnared, and captured. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Lord Will Judge Jerusalem</p><p class="poetry"><span>28:14</span> Therefore, listen to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s message,</p>
<p class="poetry">you who mock,</p>
<p class="poetry">you rulers of these people</p>
<p class="poetry">who reside in Jerusalem. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:15</span> For you say,</p>
<p class="poetry">“We have made a treaty with death,</p>
<p class="poetry">with Sheol we have made an agreement. </p>
<p class="poetry">When the overwhelming judgment sweeps by </p>
<p class="poetry">it will not reach us.</p>
<p class="poetry">For we have made a lie our refuge,</p>
<p class="poetry">we have hidden ourselves in a deceitful word.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>28:16</span> Therefore, this is what the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, says:</p>
<p class="poetry">“Look, I am laying a stone in Zion,</p>
<p class="poetry">an approved stone,</p>
<p class="poetry">set in place as a precious cornerstone for the foundation. </p>
<p class="poetry">The one who maintains his faith will not panic. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:17</span> I will make justice the measuring line,</p>
<p class="poetry">fairness the plumb line;</p>
<p class="poetry">hail will sweep away the unreliable refuge, </p>
<p class="poetry">the floodwaters will overwhelm the hiding place. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:18</span> Your treaty with death will be dissolved; </p>
<p class="poetry">your agreement with Sheol will not last. </p>
<p class="poetry">When the overwhelming judgment sweeps by, </p>
<p class="poetry">you will be overrun by it. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:19</span> Whenever it sweeps by, it will overtake you;</p>
<p class="poetry">indeed, every morning it will sweep by,</p>
<p class="poetry">it will come through during the day and the night.” </p>
<p class="poetry">When this announcement is understood,</p>
<p class="poetry">it will cause nothing but terror. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:20</span> For the bed is too short to stretch out on,</p>
<p class="poetry">and the blanket is too narrow to wrap around oneself. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:21</span> For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will rise up, as he did at Mount Perazim; </p>
<p class="poetry">he will rouse himself, as he did in the Valley of Gibeon, </p>
<p class="poetry">to accomplish his work,</p>
<p class="poetry">his peculiar work,</p>
<p class="poetry">to perform his task,</p>
<p class="poetry">his strange task. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:22</span> So now, do not mock,</p>
<p class="poetry">or your chains will become heavier!</p>
<p class="poetry">For I have heard a message about decreed destruction,</p>
<p class="poetry">from the Sovereign <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies against the entire land. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:23</span> Pay attention and listen to my message. </p>
<p class="poetry">Be attentive and listen to what I have to say! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:24</span> Does a farmer just keep on plowing at planting time? </p>
<p class="poetry">Does he keep breaking up and harrowing his ground? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:25</span> Once he has leveled its surface, </p>
<p class="poetry">does he not scatter the seed of the caraway plant,</p>
<p class="poetry">sow the seed of the cumin plant,</p>
<p class="poetry">and plant the wheat, barley, and grain in their designated places? </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:26</span> His God instructs him;</p>
<p class="poetry">he teaches him the principles of agriculture. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:27</span> Certainly caraway seed is not threshed with a sledge,</p>
<p class="poetry">nor is the wheel of a cart rolled over cumin seed. </p>
<p class="poetry">Certainly caraway seed is beaten with a stick,</p>
<p class="poetry">and cumin seed with a flail. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:28</span> Grain is crushed,</p>
<p class="poetry">though one certainly does not thresh it forever.</p>
<p class="poetry">The wheel of one’s wagon rolls over it,</p>
<p class="poetry">but his horses do not crush it.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>28:29</span> This also comes from the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> of Heaven’s Armies,</p>
<p class="poetry">who gives supernatural guidance and imparts great wisdom. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file729.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file731.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
