<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) 1 Chronicles 16</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file366.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file368.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">1 Chronicles<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 16</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Leads in Worship</p><p class="bodytext"><span>16:1</span> They brought the ark of God and put it in the middle of the tent David had pitched for it. Then they offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings before God. <span>16:2</span> When David finished offering burnt sacrifices and peace offerings, he pronounced a blessing over the people in the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s name. <span>16:3</span> He then handed out to each Israelite man and woman a loaf of bread, a date cake, and a raisin cake. <span>16:4</span> He appointed some of the Levites to serve before the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, to offer prayers, songs of thanks, and hymns to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of Israel. <span>16:5</span> Asaph was the leader and Zechariah second-in-command, followed by Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom, and Jeiel. They were to play stringed instruments, Asaph was to sound the cymbals, <span>16:6</span> and the priests Benaiah and Jahaziel were to blow trumpets regularly before the ark of God’s covenant. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Thanks God</p><p class="bodytext"><span>16:7</span> That day David first gave to Asaph and his colleagues this song of thanks to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:8</span> Give thanks to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>!</p>
<p class="poetry">Call on his name!</p>
<p class="poetry">Make known his accomplishments among the nations. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:9</span> Sing to him! Make music to him!</p>
<p class="poetry">Tell about all his miraculous deeds.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:10</span> Boast about his holy name.</p>
<p class="poetry">Let the hearts of those who seek the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> rejoice. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:11</span> Seek the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> and the strength he gives.</p>
<p class="poetry">Seek his presence continually! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:12</span> Recall the miraculous deeds he performed,</p>
<p class="poetry">his mighty acts and the judgments he decreed, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:13</span> O children of Israel, God’s servant,</p>
<p class="poetry">you descendants of Jacob, God’s chosen ones! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:14</span> He is the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> our God;</p>
<p class="poetry">he carries out judgment throughout the earth. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:15</span> Remember continually his covenantal decree,</p>
<p class="poetry">the promise he made to a thousand generations—</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:16</span> the promise he made to Abraham,</p>
<p class="poetry">the promise he made by oath to Isaac! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:17</span> He gave it to Jacob as a decree,</p>
<p class="poetry">to Israel as a lasting promise, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:18</span> saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan</p>
<p class="poetry">as the portion of your inheritance.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:19</span> When they were few in number,</p>
<p class="poetry">just a very few, and foreign residents within it,</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:20</span> they wandered from nation to nation,</p>
<p class="poetry">and from one kingdom to another. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:21</span> He let no one oppress them;</p>
<p class="poetry">he disciplined kings for their sake, </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:22</span> saying, “Don’t touch my anointed ones!</p>
<p class="poetry">Don’t harm my prophets!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:23</span> Sing to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, all the earth!</p>
<p class="poetry">Announce every day how he delivers. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:24</span> Tell the nations about his splendor,</p>
<p class="poetry">tell all the nations about his miraculous deeds.</p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:25</span> For the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is great and certainly worthy of praise,</p>
<p class="poetry">he is more awesome than all gods. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:26</span> For all the gods of the nations are worthless, </p>
<p class="poetry">but the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> made the heavens. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:27</span> Majestic splendor emanates from him, </p>
<p class="poetry">he is the source of strength and joy. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:28</span> Ascribe to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, O families of the nations,</p>
<p class="poetry">ascribe to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> splendor and strength! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:29</span> Ascribe to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> the splendor he deserves! </p>
<p class="poetry">Bring an offering and enter his presence!</p>
<p class="poetry">Worship the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> in holy attire! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:30</span> Tremble before him, all the earth!</p>
<p class="poetry">The world is established, it cannot be moved. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:31</span> Let the heavens rejoice, and the earth be happy!</p>
<p class="poetry">Let the nations say, “The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> reigns!” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:32</span> Let the sea and everything in it shout!</p>
<p class="poetry">Let the fields and everything in them celebrate! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:33</span> Then let the trees of the forest shout with joy before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>,</p>
<p class="poetry">for he comes to judge the earth! </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:34</span> Give thanks to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, for he is good</p>
<p class="poetry">and his loyal love endures. </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:35</span> Say this prayer: “Deliver us, O God who delivers us!</p>
<p class="poetry">Gather us! Rescue us from the nations!</p>
<p class="poetry">Then we will give thanks to your holy name,</p>
<p class="poetry">and boast about your praiseworthy deeds.” </p>
<p class="poetry"><span>16:36</span> May the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> God of Israel be praised,</p>
<p class="poetry">in the future and forevermore. </p>
<p class="poetry">Then all the people said, “We agree! Praise the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>.”</p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">David Appoints Worship Leaders</p><p class="bodytext"><span>16:37</span> David left Asaph and his colleagues there before the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s covenant to serve before the ark regularly and fulfill each day’s requirements, <span>16:38</span> including Obed-Edom and sixty-eight colleagues. Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun and Hosah were gatekeepers. <span>16:39</span> Zadok the priest and his fellow priests served before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s tabernacle at the worship center in Gibeon, <span>16:40</span> regularly offering burnt sacrifices to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> on the altar for burnt sacrifice, morning and evening, according to what is prescribed in the law of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> which he charged Israel to observe. <span>16:41</span> Joining them were Heman, Jeduthun, and the rest of those chosen and designated by name to give thanks to the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>. (For his loyal love endures!) <span>16:42</span> Heman and Jeduthun were in charge of the music, including the trumpets, cymbals, and the other musical instruments used in praising God. The sons of Jeduthun guarded the entrance. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>16:43</span> Then all the people returned to their homes, and David went to pronounce a blessing on his family. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file366.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file368.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
