<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) Deuteronomy 31</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file188.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file190.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">Deuteronomy<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 31</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Succession of Moses by Joshua</p><p class="bodytext"><span>31:1</span> Then Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel. <span>31:2</span> He said to them, “Today I am 120 years old. I am no longer able to get about, and the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said to me, ‘You will not cross the Jordan.’ <span>31:3</span> As for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God, he is about to cross over before you; he will destroy these nations before you, and you will dispossess them. As for Joshua, he is about to cross before you just as the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> has said. <span>31:4</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will do to them just what he did to Sihon and Og, the Amorite kings, and to their land, which he destroyed. <span>31:5</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> will deliver them over to you, and you will do to them according to the whole commandment I have given you. <span>31:6</span> Be strong and courageous! Do not fear or tremble before them, for the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God is the one who is going with you. He will not fail you or abandon you!” <span>31:7</span> Then Moses called out to Joshua in the presence of all Israel, “Be strong and courageous, for you will accompany these people to the land that the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> promised to give their ancestors, and you will enable them to inherit it. <span>31:8</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> is indeed going before you—he will be with you; he will not fail you or abandon you. Do not be afraid or discouraged!” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Deposit of the Covenant Text</p><p class="bodytext"><span>31:9</span> Then Moses wrote down this law and gave it to the Levitical priests, who carry the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s covenant, and to all Israel’s elders. <span>31:10</span> He commanded them: “At the end of seven years, at the appointed time of the cancellation of debts, at the Feast of Shelters, <span>31:11</span> when all Israel comes to appear before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God in the place he chooses, you must read this law before them within their hearing. <span>31:12</span> Gather the people—men, women, and children, as well as the resident foreigners in your villages—so they may hear and thus learn about and fear the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God and carefully obey all the words of this law. <span>31:13</span> Then their children, who have not known this law, will also hear about and learn to fear the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God for as long as you live in the land you are crossing the Jordan to possess.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">The Commissioning of Joshua</p><p class="bodytext"><span>31:14</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to Moses, “The day of your death is near. Summon Joshua and present yourselves in the tent of meeting so that I can commission him.” So Moses and Joshua presented themselves in the tent of meeting. <span>31:15</span> The <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud that stood above the door of the tent. <span>31:16</span> Then the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> said to Moses, “You are about to die, and then these people will begin to prostitute themselves with the foreign gods of the land into which they are going. They will reject me and break my covenant that I have made with them. <span>31:17</span> At that time my anger will erupt against them, and I will abandon them and hide my face from them until they are devoured. Many disasters and distresses will overcome them so that they will say at that time, ‘Have not these disasters overcome us because our God is not among us ?’ <span>31:18</span> But I will certainly hide myself at that time because of all the wickedness they will have done by turning to other gods. <span>31:19</span> Now write down for yourselves the following song and teach it to the Israelites. Put it into their very mouths so that this song may serve as my witness against the Israelites! <span>31:20</span> For after I have brought them to the land I promised to their ancestors—one flowing with milk and honey—and they eat their fill and become fat, then they will turn to other gods and worship them; they will reject me and break my covenant. <span>31:21</span> Then when many disasters and distresses overcome them this song will testify against them, for their descendants will not forget it. I know the intentions they have in mind today, even before I bring them to the land I have promised.” <span>31:22</span> So on that day Moses wrote down this song and taught it to the Israelites, <span>31:23</span> and the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> commissioned Joshua son of Nun, “Be strong and courageous, for you will take the Israelites to the land I have promised them, and I will be with you.” </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Anticipation of Disobedience</p><p class="bodytext"><span>31:24</span> When Moses finished writing on a scroll the words of this law in their entirety, <span>31:25</span> he commanded the Levites who carried the ark of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>’s covenant, <span>31:26</span> “Take this scroll of the law and place it beside the ark of the covenant of the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span> your God. It will remain there as a witness against you, <span>31:27</span> for I know about your rebellion and stubbornness. Indeed, even while I have been living among you to this very day, you have rebelled against the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>; you will be even more rebellious after my death! <span>31:28</span> Gather to me all your tribal elders and officials so I can speak to them directly about these things and call the heavens and the earth to witness against them. <span>31:29</span> For I know that after I die you will totally corrupt yourselves and turn away from the path I have commanded you to walk. Disaster will confront you in future days because you will act wickedly before the <span class="smcaps">Lord</span>, inciting him to anger because of your actions.” <span>31:30</span> Then Moses recited the words of this song from start to finish in the hearing of the whole assembly of Israel: </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file188.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file190.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
