<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>NET Bible 2.1 (noteless) John 8</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles1.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">NET Bible 2.1 (noteless)
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Biblical Studies Press

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="file1047.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="file1049.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h1 class="calibre3">John<br class="calibre7"/>Chapter 8</h1>
<p class="paragraphtitle">A Woman Caught in Adultery </p><p class="bodytext"><span>7:53</span> [[ And each one departed to his own house. <span>8:1</span> But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. <span>8:2</span> Early in the morning he came to the temple courts again. All the people came to him, and he sat down and began to teach them. <span>8:3</span> The experts in the law and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught committing adultery. They made her stand in front of them <span>8:4</span> and said to Jesus, “Teacher, this woman was caught in the very act of adultery. <span>8:5</span> In the law <i class="calibre10">Moses</i> <i class="calibre10">commanded us to stone to death</i> such women. What then do you say?” <span>8:6</span> (Now they were asking this in an attempt to trap him, so that they could bring charges against him.) Jesus bent down and wrote on the ground with his finger. <span>8:7</span> When they persisted in asking him, he stood up straight and replied, “Whoever among you is guiltless may be the first to throw a stone at her.” <span>8:8</span> Then he bent over again and wrote on the ground. </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:9</span> Now when they heard this, they began to drift away one at a time, starting with the older ones, until Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. <span>8:10</span> Jesus stood up straight and said to her, “Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn you?” <span>8:11</span> She replied, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said, “I do not condemn you either. Go, and from now on do not sin any more.”]] </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Jesus as the Light of the World</p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:12</span> Then Jesus spoke out again, “I am the light of the world! The one who follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.” <span>8:13</span> So the Pharisees objected, “You testify about yourself; your testimony is not true!” <span>8:14</span> Jesus answered, “Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going. But you people do not know where I came from or where I am going. <span>8:15</span> You people judge by outward appearances; I do not judge anyone. <span>8:16</span> But if I judge, my evaluation is accurate, because I am not alone when I judge, but I and the Father who sent me do so together. <span>8:17</span> It is written in your law that <i class="calibre10">the testimony of two men is true</i>. <span>8:18</span> I testify about myself and the Father who sent me testifies about me.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:19</span> Then they began asking him, “Who is your father?” Jesus answered, “You do not know either me or my Father. If you knew me you would know my Father too.” <span>8:20</span> (Jesus spoke these words near the offering box while he was teaching in the temple courts. No one seized him because his time had not yet come.) </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Where Jesus Came From and Where He is Going</p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:21</span> Then Jesus said to them again, “I am going away, and you will look for me but will die in your sin. Where I am going you cannot come.” <span>8:22</span> So the Jewish leaders began to say, “Perhaps he is going to kill himself, because he says, ‘Where I am going you cannot come.’” <span>8:23</span> Jesus replied, “You people are from below; I am from above. You people are from this world; I am not from this world. <span>8:24</span> Thus I told you that you will die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:25</span> So they said to him, “Who are you?” Jesus replied, “What I have told you from the beginning. <span>8:26</span> I have many things to say and to judge about you, but the Father who sent me is truthful, and the things I have heard from him I speak to the world.” <span>8:27</span> (They did not understand that he was telling them about his Father.) </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:28</span> Then Jesus said, “When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and I do nothing on my own initiative, but I speak just what the Father taught me. <span>8:29</span> And the one who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, because I always do those things that please him.” <span>8:30</span> While he was saying these things, many people believed in him. </p>
<p class="paragraphtitle">Abraham’s Children and the Devil’s Children</p><p class="bodytext"><span>8:31</span> Then Jesus said to those Judeans who had believed him, “If you continue to follow my teaching, you are really my disciples <span>8:32</span> and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” <span>8:33</span> “We are descendants of Abraham,” they replied, “and have never been anyone’s slaves! How can you say, ‘You will become free’?” <span>8:34</span> Jesus answered them, “I tell you the solemn truth, everyone who practices sin is a slave of sin. <span>8:35</span> The slave does not remain in the family forever, but the son remains forever. <span>8:36</span> So if the son sets you free, you will be really free. <span>8:37</span> I know that you are Abraham’s descendants. But you want to kill me, because my teaching makes no progress among you. <span>8:38</span> I am telling you the things I have seen while with the Father; as for you, practice the things you have heard from the Father!” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:39</span> They answered him, “Abraham is our father!” Jesus replied, “If you are Abraham’s children, you would be doing the deeds of Abraham. <span>8:40</span> But now you are trying to kill me, a man who has told you the truth I heard from God. Abraham did not do this! <span>8:41</span> You people are doing the deeds of your father.”</p>
<p class="bodytext">Then they said to Jesus, “We were not born as a result of immorality! We have only one Father, God himself.” <span>8:42</span> Jesus replied, “If God were your Father, you would love me, for I have come from God and am now here. I have not come on my own initiative, but he sent me. <span>8:43</span> Why don’t you understand what I am saying? It is because you cannot accept my teaching. <span>8:44</span> You people are from your father the devil, and you want to do what your father desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not uphold the truth, because there is no truth in him. Whenever he lies, he speaks according to his own nature, because he is a liar and the father of lies. <span>8:45</span> But because I am telling you the truth, you do not believe me. <span>8:46</span> Who among you can prove me guilty of any sin? If I am telling you the truth, why don’t you believe me? <span>8:47</span> The one who belongs to God listens and responds to God’s words. You don’t listen and respond, because you don’t belong to God.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:48</span> The Judeans replied, “Aren’t we correct in saying that you are a Samaritan and are possessed by a demon?” <span>8:49</span> Jesus answered, “I am not possessed by a demon, but I honor my Father—and yet you dishonor me. <span>8:50</span> I am not trying to get praise for myself. There is one who demands it, and he also judges. <span>8:51</span> I tell you the solemn truth, if anyone obeys my teaching, he will never see death.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:52</span> Then the Judeans responded, “Now we know you’re possessed by a demon! Both Abraham and the prophets died, and yet you say, ‘If anyone obeys my teaching, he will never experience death.’ <span>8:53</span> You aren’t greater than our father Abraham who died, are you? And the prophets died too! Who do you claim to be?” <span>8:54</span> Jesus replied, “If I glorify myself, my glory is worthless. The one who glorifies me is my Father, about whom you people say, ‘He is our God.’ <span>8:55</span> Yet you do not know him, but I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I obey his teaching. <span>8:56</span> Your father Abraham was overjoyed to see my day, and he saw it and was glad.” </p>
<p class="bodytext"><span>8:57</span> Then the Judeans replied, “You are not yet fifty years old! Have you seen Abraham?” <span>8:58</span> Jesus said to them, “I tell you the solemn truth, before Abraham came into existence, I am!” <span>8:59</span> Then they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus was hidden from them and went out from the temple area. </p>




  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../jo_chd3o.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="file1.xhtml">Genesis</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file52.xhtml">Exodus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file93.xhtml">Leviticus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file121.xhtml">Numbers</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file158.xhtml">Deuteronomy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file193.xhtml">Joshua</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file218.xhtml">Judges</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file240.xhtml">Ruth</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file245.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file277.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file302.xhtml">1 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file325.xhtml">2 Kings</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file351.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file381.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file418.xhtml">Ezra</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file429.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file443.xhtml">Esther</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file454.xhtml">Job</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file497.xhtml">Psalms</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file648.xhtml">Proverbs</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file680.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file693.xhtml">Song of Solomon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file702.xhtml">Isaiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file769.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file822.xhtml">Lamentations</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file828.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file877.xhtml">Daniel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file890.xhtml">Hosea</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file905.xhtml">Joel</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file909.xhtml">Amos</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file919.xhtml">Obadiah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file921.xhtml">Jonah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file926.xhtml">Micah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file934.xhtml">Nahum</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file938.xhtml">Habakkuk</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file942.xhtml">Zephaniah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file946.xhtml">Haggai</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file949.xhtml">Zechariah</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file964.xhtml">Malachi</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file969.xhtml">Matthew</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file998.xhtml">Mark</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1015.xhtml">Luke</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1040.xhtml">John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1062.xhtml">Acts</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1091.xhtml">Romans</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1108.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1125.xhtml">2 Corinthians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1139.xhtml">Galatians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1146.xhtml">Ephesians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1153.xhtml">Philippians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1158.xhtml">Colossians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1163.xhtml">1 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1169.xhtml">2 Thessalonians</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1173.xhtml">1 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1180.xhtml">2 Timothy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1185.xhtml">Titus</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1189.xhtml">Philemon</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1191.xhtml">Hebrews</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1205.xhtml">James</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1211.xhtml">1 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1217.xhtml">2 Peter</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1221.xhtml">1 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1227.xhtml">2 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1229.xhtml">3 John</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1231.xhtml">Jude</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="file1233.xhtml">Revelation</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="file1047.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../jo_chd3o.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="file1049.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
